
Sunil Sharma: You will recognize our next speakers from the small screen from sporting arenas and from the silver screen. One of them has over 7 million subscribers on YouTube. One has an Olympic gold medal and multiple world championship gold medals. And one has graced our screens in hit series like Lost and the Vampire Diaries. So in conversation with Laurie Segall of Dot Dot Dot Media, please give a big Web Summit welcome to YouTube's favorite son Caspar Lee, Olympic gold medalist Dame Jessica Ennis-Hill and Vampire Diaries Star Ian Somerhalder.
Laurie Segall: There's a lot of influence on the stage right now. Not coming from the left side, but over here. 
Ian Somerhalder: That's not true. 
Laurie Segall: I am super excited to be here with you guys. A because of all you've accomplished, we have athlete, actor, you've built an incredible fan base from nothing. I want to talk about how you built these fan bases. You have 7.3 million subscribers on YouTube, Ian 15 million on Instagram. Jessica half a million on Instagram. What do you think is the single most important thing you've learned building out this fan base?
Caspar Lee: So I mean, for me I think a little bit different to the both of you guys have like a serious talent was you able to start off with I was a 16 year old kid in my bedroom in South Africa with basically just the goal of being a YouTuber, which wasn't a career back then. And for some reason, I was just obsessed. And it's difficult when you don't have a particular talent you can lean on. So what I was able to do was collaborate with other people and build through that. So yeah, that's kind of been the way I've been able to get a platform, which is difficult when you don't have talent.
Laurie Segall: But what does that mean collaborate with other viewer in your room in South Africa. And then
Caspar Lee: Like things as simple as Skyping and convincing my parents that instead of going on a hockey tour, I was going to meet a random person I met on the internet. And I went to London and somehow was able to set up the right collaborations with the right people. So that's how it happened.
Ian Somerhalder: He just said one very interesting thing which he said he had, he didn't have a talent. The best thing he could do is collaborate with people made. That's how the world has been built. That is a huge talent. Collaboration is how anything gets done. 
Caspar Lee: Thank you. 
Jessica Ennis-Hill: I think for me as well, obviously, being an athlete, you know, athletics is my whole life, you know, starting from the age of nine. So my influence if you would say that or my audience has all been driven by my performances. And I think most athletes when they're in the midst of their career, a very kind of almost single mindedly focused on the end goal, which is a medal performance at a major championships. And that's what's always been my drive and my focus and that's what's ultimately knocked on to, to my success beyond them.
Laurie Segall: How about you? I mean, you 15 million folks follow you on Instagram. And also, I read some of your, top 1% of high engagement on Instagram. So people are very engaged in your content. What do you think it is?
Ian Somerhalder: I mean, it's been a really phenomenal journey and I love connecting with people having been on a on a television show, that resonated with audiences and that was took a massive, massive team and required hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars of financing through Warner Brothers. I got lucky at a time in 2009, when this technology was just sort of starting. I felt I didn't have a talent as well. And what I wanted to do, I didn't have a college education. But I recognize that through entertainment, I could leverage entertainment value to create quantifiable global change. So that was sort of the ethos. It's about authenticity. If you enjoy yourself and put an authentic version of yourself out there that resonates with people, rather than a false representation. So
Laurie Segall: It certainly seems like authenticity. This idea of authenticity is kind of under attack right now. I mean, we have social media. Obviously, we've seen some of the dangers of social media. Caspar, I'll throw this one to you. You have people inflating the numbers of followers that's come out people are buying followers. I don't know if anyone read about the Fyre festival. Anyone see the issues around the Fyre festival or that didn't happen and influencers promoting products that they don't actually use? We're certainly in this moment where I think trust has kind of shifted a little bit. Do you think the influencer economy is taking a bit of a hit?
Caspar Lee: So it's a very new market? I think that there's something like 9 million people who are classified as influencers. So when you're dealing with such large numbers, there's always going to be bad players in the community. And I obviously that is focused on by the media because I think bad news does sell better than good news. Things like Fyre festival for me were fascinating to see because it kind of shows how powerful influencer marketing is. But how important it is for companies to be more professional. Do the due diligence. I felt like the creators who are involved in promoting that festival, I felt a little bit bad for them to be honest because they they were sold the dream as well about this. I think there were people involved. Maybe it was very close. And I think Billy McFarland, I remember there he was on the stage, actually at one point. So yeah, that's just an example of, I guess, how powerful it is and how it can also be used negatively. But, again, there's a lot of positive uses, as well. 
Laurie Segall: How do you think that the relationship between brands and influencers needs to evolve given kind of a certain state?
Caspar Lee: So I mean, this is a little bit of a plug, but I've got a company called influencer.com, that I co founded with a guy called Ben Jeffries, and our goal is to connect and create meaningful relationships between brands and influencers. And what's important is that brands realize that, yeah, people can have a massive number and these numbers are huge, but they're not always genuine. So Got to work with companies that are able to check, because it's not that it's not that hard to check, but it's time consuming. And it takes a technology to do that. So just be working with people who know what they're doing.
Laurie Segall: Right and, Ian what do you think? I mean, you've actually you're building out a company, right? You're using your influence and a lot of you're falling text, you build out a company based on a need that you felt like you had. I mean, if you don't mind me saying, I hate taking backstage conversations, and then just kind of throwing them out to everyone, but I will. You were saying that you actually were had a lot of health issues in the in the last year and that kind of led you to want to create a company you're creating.
Ian Somerhalder: Yeah, I mean, I think you as a professional athlete, and I, I think the need came from. I was doing what most of us do, pushing very hard. We're also consumed With and I don't mean this in any, you know, I'm part of it as well. We want things whether it's a better life for our family or we want a different house or a bigger house or different car to do this. So we push our bodies, right. I've been pushing my body for so many years and being on a TV show is an immense amount of work was flying 90 flights a year. I built six companies within the span of probably four or five years plus a foundation than having a family raising a child. And it all hit me like a ton of bricks. When I ended up in the hospital with pulmonary embolism, and I was told I had between about 12 to 24 hours left to live. It was a big wake up call at 39. Then immediately following that to sort of go into pre cardiac arrest. The idea is is that whatever socio economic part of the ladder you're on, we're all pushing our bodies. I wanted to design something Feed the body, feed the adrenal feed the brain, but create a connection just like what you said, build a connection between the user of it's a drink product. It's it's a functional drink. But it's a it's adapted to Jen's it's vitamins, it's brain stimulants, it's things that actually feed you throughout the day. But create a Connect connection between you and your body, which a lot of brands have a lot of trouble doing. But as an influencer or an actor, I can sort of cut through the BS and talk to people because I don't have a level of corporate governance that I have to sort of live within the means or the confines of. So the company's called immortal rituals. Immortal came from the idea of vampire which we do want to live longer. That's why we want to take care of ourselves. But it's hard in this economic way because we we push so that's the idea. Creating connection between user, customer, person and what they're putting into their body. And I am very excited to to launch this. And you know not to sound like a capitalist pig, but I want my company to become a multinational, multi billion dollar corporation because then I get to invest in the things that mean things to me. You know, we have the idea, we talk about sustainability. What is sustainability? Well, sustainability is keeping up with the status quo. We have to redefine what sustainability is. And I think we need to move into what's called regeneration, regenerative, regenerative farming practices, regenerative living practices. So the companies with triple bottom lines are the ones are going to sustain the future. triple bottom line, meaning people planet profit. And that's what we're doing.
Laurie Segall: And Jessica, you also created a company trying to use your influence What's interesting though, is the company you're creating isn't necessarily 100% in line with your sports following. So you have this whole following online and people who followed you from the Olympics and throughout your incredible career, but the new companies a little bit different. So how have you kind of tried to navigate bringing followers over shifting the brand mindset?
Jessica Ennis-Hill: Yeah, so it's been a huge challenge because my fan base and my audience, who I created kind of threw my performances on the track, were very organically grown. You know, every time I performed and I will medals I gain more followers because they enjoyed watching me compete since retiring, my new passion, and my focus has been setting up this new company Jennis Fitness, and it really incorporates the pregnancy world, so exercising workouts during each trimester of your pregnancy post natively and also fitness into kind of back to normal fitness. And yeah, there's two audience of very different so I have This organically grown audience is already there, and they'll be with me forever. But I now have to create this new audience that is, you know, very woman pregnancy focus, which doesn't necessarily cross over with what I already have. And so yeah, so it's a huge challenge. It's one that I'm really passionate about because I now have two young children. I've had two very different journeys through pregnancy and exercising, one coming back to World Championship level and winning another gold medal and Olympic standard again, and then with my daughter, I came into retirement after having her so I feel that everything that I've learned through these amazing processes and I'm so passionate about being able to put together into this fitness app and hopefully inspire more women to be active and confident in exercise and through that massive change in their life.
Laurie Segall: Caspar do you think the word, do you think that the word influencer Do we need to evolve that I when we were speaking you, you kind of said, Oh, I don't know about the word influence there. Well, why what do you
Caspar Lee: Funny because like, that's the name of our company. I think it's because there's just so many different types of people who have influenced I think, I mean, for example, here we have an actor, we have an athlete's, and we have a YouTuber, and we all kind of under one name, and I think that name has been used slightly negatively in the media. And I think the image that comes to mind when I hear the word influence is someone who just takes selfies all day. And I think that there are other words such as creates and then more specific to what you're your influence comes from that we should be using to describe these people then this massive blanket. So yeah, I mean, that's my opinion on that. But it's not a terrible word either. It's just sometimes like, people. Yeah, I've read a lot of articles about that about the word and maybe that's me overanalyzing it 
Ian Somerhalder: When you when you use the word influencer around Casper. He sort of backs up behind Let's see who's listening.
Laurie Segall: How do you guys feel about Instagram? You know, a lot of these tech companies are changing the algorithms, they change their products very quickly, especially with a lot of the pressure from a lot of the outside forces. How do you feel about Instagram's? latest? I know they've been testing out a feature that would hide likes publicly as influencers or whatever you want to call yourself. 
Caspar Lee: That's Instagram. Instagram are the ones that are spearheading the word creator actually, which is quite interesting. But yeah, I think I mean, to be honest, I think it's a good thing. I feel like the world is in a very tough spot because we're constantly comparing ourselves to others. I spoke about this earlier when you were there, but I don't know how you felt if you have you won a silver medal before.
Jessica Ennis-Hill: I have. My last medal was a silver medal.
Caspar Lee: Basically what I'm saying is like you're probably used to winning gold and when you when you're so close to winning gold and you get that silver medal, what they find is that people are less happy with the silver Metal than they are with the bronze, because it's so close to that. And I feel now with the world the way it is. We constantly comparing ourselves to the best every single time we open our phones. And I think likes has become a measure of that even though To be honest, Adele is not a big part of influencer marketing. Anyway, the amount of likes the post get doesn't equal the amount of sales or uplift and brand. So there's deeper metrics that we should be focusing on. So I think it's a good thing.
Jessica Ennis-Hill: Sorry, I was gonna say I think we briefly mentioned it before. It's about mental health, isn't it? It's about understanding how we influence people and the effect that we have on people but also how they absorb it. And I think you're so right, we have to be so mindful and careful as to how especially young people interact with all these social media platforms. It's scenario that does scare me slightly, being a mother of two knowing that the world is constantly changing and Instagram, where will it be in 567 years time. So it's a really important area I feel
Ian Somerhalder: We also do have a we do and again, I say this with with nothing but respect for all of us because we're all part of this, you know, because my show had a very young following. And when you're young, actually, even when you're in your 30s, and 40s, but people are starting to put their self worth in this little tiny device. And it's having some very strong and negative impacts on our psyche. If you think about it, we have now more than any generation has ever had in the history of the world. We have more medicine, more money, more food, more real estate, more vehicles, we have more than any other generation. And yet depression rates are higher now amongst teens and adults than we've ever been able to even categorize and I think it's something that we have to ask ask ourselves, why? And how do we mitigate that? And I think one big side of it for us to is about parenting. It's about showing your young ones that this is not your self worth is not locked up in this little device. I think the likes thing will be a very unique and impactful way to push forward because it is like a drug and people get addicted to it and it has a direct correlation to mental health and I think we all whether influencers or not, within our households or in our specific fields, need to be focused on helping people find that level of mental health, happier, healthier people, build happier, healthier societies. It's just a fact.
Laurie Segall: How many people I've just be curious in the audience, how many people don't necessarily feel better about themselves after looking at social media for long periods of time. Okay. Oh, seems like a healthy audience. Okay. Yeah. I mean, you guys have these insane following so I'd be curious to know how does the negativity I'm sure you get a lot of negativity. How does that impact you? Do you have a practice? Or are you just invincible like a vampire?
Laurie Segall: Be honest with us. It's the truth zone
Ian Somerhalder: I honestly see the I see the positive, even in the negative. And I think the best thing to do is actually just guide people toward the positive when you start seeing negativity within the comments. You don't need to you don't need to comment. But you do help uplift the ones who are being positive. And eventually, you know, listen, we're hiding behind these screens. So it does take a while and a certain level of maturity. to not put your negative feelings out into the world because at the end of the day, we are our thoughts, what we put out into the world You know, it's the butterfly effect. So I just encourage parents, young ones, influencers, CEO, CFO, CEOs, CMOS to start taking stock and what not just our consumers are doing but how we're sort of living our lives and what we're allowing these devices to do. I find positivity in all of it. No, let any of it get me down. But I do feel the need that as brands as influencers, we do have a social responsibility, not just to sell people things, but make their lives better as a result of them buying our products. 
Laurie Segall: How about you mentioned that in 2012, during the Olympics, you just like did not look at social media. It was like a whole you could not look at social media, what we do, and I mean, also as a woman, and I read, there are lots of comments when you had children. I mean, how did you you know, how do you build a brand, build a following and nothing let it impact.
Jessica Ennis-Hill: Yeah, I mean, I'd be lying to say it didn't impact on me because we do. You know, we were drawn in by those negative comments. And sometimes we use them to feed us into motivators. And other times they just knock away at us. And I suppose I've always taken the premise of, Okay, let's see humor in this. Let's draw it back to who are these people making these really small comments that are impacting on me, let's put it into perspective and understand the bigger picture of it. And particularly before the London Olympics, I was so focused, so driven on not letting anything stop me from getting to my point, that social media for me was that one distraction too far. I had to, you know, go offline and not read anything. And it was hard because she wants to read everyone where she can, you know, wanting us to do well, but equally, I didn't want those one or two negative comments to just eat away at me and have an impact on my performance out there. When I was competing,
Laurie Segall: And how about in the YouTube community. I feel like people are You need to talk about this also you're in like, I feel like you get brought into these tech companies to to talk about behind the scenes what they're having conversations about.
Caspar Lee: Yeah, I mean, so firstly, I think we're so lucky as youtubers to come see what we do and like obviously this is a negative aspect of it, but the positives far outweigh that. In terms of the negative comments. What I try and do is when I hear really positive comments I take it with with a pinch of salt and with a negative comments, I do the same so I don't try and let my happiness like be dictated by other people is obviously easier said on Web Summit stage than done like, when you when you've done some, like maybe when you create a piece of content, maybe you spend a lot of time on it. And there's something you might notice in that video you're not so happy about and then someone points it out. That's when it's really difficult. I don't mind if someone just like says a horrible name or something that doesn't mean anything but when they point out a specific thing. It's tough. We go try, breathe and just breathe from the stomach apparently that makes you happy and things That? I don't know. But yeah, it's difficult. And I don't think there's like a quick solution. I think it takes a long time to build up with thick skin.
Laurie Segall: All of you guys are experts in building out a brand building out influence. What do you think is the best advice you could give to folks who are starting from scratch who don't have the backgrounds? If they want to build out a following build out influence? I mean, are there certain platforms that are better? The more specific the better? 
Caspar Lee: I mean, I think TikTok's giving everyone a chance to go viral. Now, I think that's why it's doing so well. I wouldn't the problem people have I think the biggest problem with like YouTube and Instagram is when people see like a professional YouTube or whatever, they even go on YouTube. All the videos seem to do so well. What they're forgetting is most videos in the world. Don't do that well, and it could take 510 years for you to ever do what you think is good enough to be what we're trying to be so just do it because you enjoy making the content don't try and do it with like the numbers in mind. That makes sense if you're doing it without like a specific talent.
Laurie Segall: What do you think?
Jessica Ennis-Hill: Yeah, I think again, it's about enjoying what you do. And it's about being focused and passionate about what you're doing. For me now I'm moving into a completely different area, which is new to me. And it's having that confidence and that passion to, to believe in what I'm doing. And it's that process. I always told myself that when I was a competing athlete, it's the journey that you go on to get to that amazing peak and without the journey is not as sweet at the top. So it takes time to build it takes years to grow. And it's understanding that journey, and when you get there, it'll be perfection. Right?
Ian Somerhalder: Interesting. Honestly, I would say authenticity, exploration in finding, which is what we're doing with our with our company, or functional drinks company. How do you build community? How do you get people talking to one another, and kind and impactful and exciting way. That authenticity, that exploration and the desire to bring people together I think is what really speaks to people. And whether you're building a brand or you're building out a presence on a social media platform. And embodies quality.
Caspar Lee: Consistent quality. 
Ian Somerhalder: Yeah.
Laurie Segall: You recently gave out your phone number there an app called community but you gave out your phone number there almost feels like this craving to go back to like, it's almost felt a little bit nostalgic. Can you sit something in the video about how you're just not using social media and the way that you used to or there was something there
Ian Somerhalder: I wasn't. I wasn't for a while I had really stepped away from social media for quite a number of few years. And I there's a an app called community that you give your cell phone now and I've been able to text with over 10 hundred thousand people. It's been very, very special. It's very special communicating with you and engaging with them. So
Laurie Segall: Awesome. Thank you. Thank you guys.
Ian Somerhalder: Thank you all very much