
Please welcome to the stage co host of Rise Casey Lau and co host of collision Sunil Sharma.
Hello everyone and welcome to center stage for the Web Summit, pitch semi final powered by Siemens. My name is Casey Lau and I'm the co host of RISE 
And my name is Sunil Sharma. I'm the co host of collision and the MD for Techstars Toronto. We're going to be your co host for pitch today. In just a few minutes, the first of 16 semi finalists will begin to pitch right here on center stage.
To get here, eight of our semi finalists battled it out through the group rounds and quarterfinals across our three pitch stages yesterday. Now out of 135 of Web Summit's most promising startups, eight were deemed the best. These along with eight other pre selected semi finalists will pitch right here right now.
So only three startups will get through to pitch at tomorrow's final and be pitch champion here at Web Summit. It's going to take place tomorrow at exactly 12:30pm right here on center stage. To determine the best finalists, we needed a stellar batch of judges and lots of them. And that's exactly who we have. Over here, we have a panel of 20 incredible judges who are going to be scoring each startup out of 10. They'll take into consideration things such as the startups product potential to disrupt their competitive advantage, their team, their financials, and the overall quality of the pitch.
And for the semi final, there will be no q&a. So startups will only have three minutes to really impress and convince our panel that they deserve to be one of the three coveted spots in tomorrow's pitch Grand Final. But that's enough from us. Let's hear from our first startup. Our first startup is called Eastnine. So please welcome to the stage Cat.
Thank you. So I'm just going to start things off by asking you all a very quick question. How many of you would like to exercise more? Put your hands in the air.
Okay, excellent. This makes my first slide a nice easy one. So 78% of us would like to exercise more, probably about the number of you who put your hand up. Only 39% actually do an insufficient levels of physical inactivity a highest in high income countries. This Jim industry works for the Jim industry. But it doesn't work for those who use it. And it also feels like the raft of fitness apps on the market are doing little more than superficially addressing this issue of inactivity. This is where East nine comes in. So we are focused on connecting with our community in a way that enables us to truly understand how we can help them make fitness a habit. We have a clubhouse, not an office, and we hold regular meetups that enable us to get to know our audience and enable us and enable us to allow them to get to know our coaches. By doing this, we're really understanding how we can close the gap on the experience of having a coach and the exclusive list that prevents the majority of us from ever really accessing it. Our coaches obviously paramount to this and as you can see, we have a vast variety coming from different walks of life. I've personally handpicked them, using my expertise as a former GB athlete, to make sure that we work with people who are not only the best coaches that they can be, but also have an interesting story. That means they can understand you, and how you can achieve optimal fitness better. So whether it's training the military, whether it's helping people on a journey back from life threatening illness, or whether it's chasing the dream of competing in the Tokyo Olympics, our coaches really get it. They also get how to deliver it in audio, and how to make it really simple. Simplicity is the final thing that we really pull through into our product. Download the app, answer some questions about your goals, and find the session. That's it. You press star and off you go. We've also recently removed the need for you to have to take your phone with you if you're going out for a run by being the first fitness app to launch a standalone Apple Watch app. But this is just the start. So far, we have over 17,000 members within our community. And we're seeing schools across PMF. well above the 40% benchmark, they're telling us that they'd be very disappointed if they could no longer use us. We have incredible support from our VCs, local blue and cherry ventures. And we also have a brilliant number of angels, such as Sophia Benz, and Nicholas Enstrom, who are helping us on our journey. But it's just the start. The gym industry is a $100 billion industry. And we're on a path to creating a better, more accessible, less intimidating solution that puts the member first and drives real results. So my final ask is for you to do two things. download these nine from the iOS App Store and join Vince on his six minute stretching session. Thank you.
Well done. Catriona. Strong starts. Our next company all the way from Switzerland is a company called IMburse. So let's welcome Oliver to the stage.
Good evening Web Summit. My name is Oliver and I'm the CEO and co founder of IMburse. And we exist to solve one problem. That is to make it simpler for companies to integrate with a wider payment ecosystem. Those who know and deal with large companies either as having worked for those companies within the IT organization, or try to sell a service to the company that needed to integrate in the core IT system will know what a pain that is and how expensive that can be, and has nothing to do with your solution. Within large corporate Steve generally have two major topics that are driven customer engagement topics and business efficiency topics. And when you look at payments, it is pervasive through both those every from collecting premiums, paying out claims, paying salaries, asset management tools, Treasury tools, accounts payable. All of those are payment topics for large companies and has to be dealt with with different providers. It's really expensive to maintain and integrate them. And the problem are these gray areas that you see here. The more integrations that are the worse it is for large companies. To give you a feeling of what this looks like one of our clients try to move away from paying checks in the UK, just to doing bank transfers and backs. Turns out, it's not that easy. It's not one integration because those 500,000 checks are produced by seven different IT systems to are so old, they cannot take backs mapping, and all the others take 11 months, one after the other to upgrade 55 months, two and a half million pounds, and they reduce the checks issued by 40%. Along comes in birth, the most comprehensive cloud based ecosystem of payment rewards and bank partners and we make this accessible through a service looking at Example just now we were able to upgrade all seven IT systems in three months, not only two backs but foster payments and all other payout methods now and forever. One service to access all payment technologies in the world, and one single reporting file for see if a CFO that means efficiency and control of your business drive savings, for CTOs and much more comfortable life less it headaches, and for CMO new products and better customer engagement. We are alive. We have clients, we have revenue. We are growing out of the insurance industry now into banking. And the best part is our platform a sector agnostic. It doesn't matter whether it's a retail company, a railway company airlines, who we are growing into now wants to access this platform. It's available right now and we are growing very fast. We really drive the topic of reducing costs, increasing efficiencies, and modernizing IT systems and customer engagement with the law. corporates. In the end we are also good for payments. We are good for companies, which means we are good for customers. Thank you for listening.
Before I introduce the next startup, I just want to remind you all how the judges will be scoring the pitches. Each judge will be allocating the startups to the score for product potential to disrupt competitive advantage, financials team and of course the quality of pitch. All right, so let's welcome startup number three Doppio Games and presenting on stage is Jeferson.
Hi, everyone. It's a pleasure to be here today from Doppio Games company that focuses on the power of voice and conversations to create a new type of Entertainment that we haven't quite seen yet. We believe the voice is the new touch and the same way you know touch interfaces change the world 10 years ago, we believe voice interface are about to do the same. Our voice our emotional, natural, personal, and so is gaming. So we in our in our heads and made a lot of sense to put the two together, which will believe in the fast and accessible nature of voice games. We see their power to like spike imagination, and also to great powerful engagement with just the tone of an emotion. or the lack of it, I guess.
Excuse me.
Oh, yeah, so to help me with a presentation I brought like one of the characters from my first game, the vortex, which we launched a year ago for Alex and Google systems. criteria, I believe show my presentation.
Welcome to Web Summit. Voice authorization required. Can you please state your name
Jeff
I would say pleased to see you, Jeff, but we have no time for pleasantries we have a presentation to do. Do not be alarmed by the 10s of thousands of people watching this. There is a 33% chance you will not screw this up. However, we have one problem to solve before we can continue. My sensors have detected an escalated heart rate. Is the crowd causing you to feel afraid? I told you not to be alarmed literally 5.48 seconds ago. How can I help if you don't listen to me?
I'm sorry.
You will be if you screw this up. And don't worry about disappointing this crowd. They are only a small fraction of the billion plus people who could be playing our games today. After all, we brought the best people aboard to build a conversational gaming environment with a supportive me the almighty AI that is embedded in our voice driven apparatus. This is the next big step in entertainment accessible to everyone. We're creating compelling narratives and world's spoken worlds.
I couldn't have said it better myself.
By the way, Jeff, why are you not at work making games?
Because I'm here presenting.
And why did you come here? 
Came to meet the people.
You don't need to meet people. I can tell you all you need to know about people. For example, do you know the most popular favorite color in this room? Blue? Correct. The color of sadness of skies of vast oceans that will never be reversed. Because you need to be in the office making games.
Already said I'm going to the office now.
Good. You are welcome to call on me again next time you are not making games 
I'm going.
Goodbye. Jef.
So thanks like, like I mentioned, like, where do we make voice games? Feel free to check out our next game, the three, our latest game that came out a month ago and the 3% challenge, which we made in partnership with Netflix. Thank you.
Very well done, Jeferson. All right. Startup number four is called tagSpace. How are they going to do? We'll find out right now we're going to welcome Paul to the stage.
Hello, everyone. Lovely to be here. I'm going to start by talking about maps. That's right maps. Amazing things right. get you from A to B let you find some new places along the way. maps are awesome. Except when the not can you think about any of the times when even the mighty Google Maps hasn't helped you? Perhaps it was that time you were at a music festival, it possibly had more than one or two drinks, and you're busting for the washroom. And then you're trying to find the closest sexy to get out there in a hurry and you're stuck in a huge crowd. Right? Those are experienced killers. But now picture this instead. Using the magic and the power of augmented reality, you hold up your phone, look through like a magic window and find everywhere where you need to get to even with live information, such as queuing times right in front of your eyes. This is the experience being offered to over hundreds of thousands of NGOs this year, thanks to their new friends tax base. I'm Paul Martin tax base is CEO and Founder and our b2b platform allows companies to make experiences just like this in less than one hour, and not a single line of code is required. Here's how it works. content creators login to the platform. They drag and drop pins onto the map for each key location around their event site. For each pin, they upload images, videos, even 3d animated content. once they're done, they receive a publishing URL, which they can use to trivially integrate into any existing app. Or they can just publish straight to any social media channel for distribution. And users gain access by our app plugin, which is called discover. They interact using the augmented camera view as I can capture and share their favorite moments straight to social media. Our business model is predominantly SAS but with a twist. We charge Commission on any of the in app placements that are made in the AR view. We're selling virtual real estate people. And of course, tech space isn't just for big events. We've also got a market, pairing city I'm retail experiences. And then from there, we branch out to smart cities and corporate events. And on that I'd be a shocking CEO. If I didn't take this opportunity to point out, the tax base is already in your pockets. That's right. Web Summit first ever AR navigational experience is powered by tech space. And you can find us right there in the menu. Our successes to date a testament to our triple A team. And we're not just technology geeks, were all serial entrepreneurs with multiple exits, including mine video games company that generated over 100 million dollars in revenues before my exit. Lever love to talk to you more about our significant traction since our recent launch in Europe. Please come find me in the show. But do me a favor, ditch the map and instead look for the giant tag right above my head. Thank you.
Alright, that's pretty amazing so far. Pitches been pretty great. So let's welcome up our next semi finalists, Toby of Chronomics.
In the beginning, DNA is King
Govern the inherited traits, such as blue eyes, curly hair, and some genetic diseases. Identical twins have identical DNA. So why then the Kris succumb to breast cancer, whereas our identical twin Marin did not? a significant part of the answer is epigenetics.
The science of how our genes are controlled.
Crucially, epigenetic signals govern the tracks or health Hands down, and we're making the right choices, we can avoid a train wreck. Our team studied the epigenetics of aging at the University of Cambridge. Specifically, looking at how lifestyle and environmental factors influence the aging process itself, and our risk of chronic illness. Today, however, we live in a world where 70% of healthcare budgets go on preventable chronic illnesses. And even though two thirds of us here in this room will will soon suffer from a chronic illness. And even though 80% of chronic illnesses are caused by preventable lifestyle or environmental factors, we still have no good way of quantifying the impact our life choices and circumstances are having on our bodies as we age. So we built a solution, the world's first multi predictor, repeatable actionable epigenetics base testing platform, the ultimate tool for preventive proactive health management. And all this from a simple at home or in clinic saliva test. We've been recognized for the impact that epigenetics will have on global health and well being. And in under two years, we've achieved significant milestones including the first epigenetic testing kits used in preventive healthcare settings. The first repeat customers from a DNA based test, and the first totally novel epigenetic health insights learned from our customers and given back to our customers. We are currently raising our series a funding round to bring the epigenetics revolution truly into mainstream health and well being. We are Chronomics and we are improving human health by making the unseen actionable. Thank you.
Toby. All right, we're gonna keep it tight. The next startup is Qwarzo and pitching for them is Manuel.
Good evening, everybody. It's a great pleasure to me to be here today. Every once in a while, a very illusionary product comes along and changes everything. Long time ago in Mesopotamia, human guides daughter Johnson, transforming sand and glass. And this change it forever, the Enos of food conservation, transportation, and harvesting. In 50s, Italians and Germans invented the most famous plastic polymers, the most cost effective plastic polymers paving the way Met plastics mass production. Plastic was unbelievable. Transparent resistance syllable, durable, stainless
Too much.
Today we're introducing Qwarzo plastic is over the Qwarzo era and we're very proud to introduce a revolutionary solution.
Qwarzo stratum it's a surface treatment to replace all the flexible packaging made of plastic. And also solid is a paper molding injection like plastic injection to replace all the rest of disposable plastic. But was it actually brought Call so Goertzel Kieran nature on
its water, mineral
and some alcohol like beer.
And we presented it
Quartz or adjust adding properties of glass to the paper because Goertzel is glass a sand, nothing more and with no capex investment, today we are able to reprint Quartz on paper and we get this kind of life packaging made off hundred percent paper so hundred percent recyclable, and in the worst case, hundred percent compostable becoming paper again. We can replace almost each of these packaging. And as a matter of fact, we signed last week our first contest With a multinational company of 10 million euros for the next three years with a very good gross margin.
Everybody knows it.
We made it a fully paper transparent and waterproof wrapping paper for for Brad.
We can also mix paper with water
and then injected like plastic to make something like this, thanks to our team or the best experts coming from such Tim Legl Legl This is a perfect hundred percent paper coffee cup that you can put in your Nespresso coffee machine. And effectiveness. What about the effectiveness plastic takes 5.8 seconds to make a bottle cap plastic bottle cap with Goertzel 5.5 seconds so we take less And what about cost when you are for for plastic when you are for Qwarzo not one more penny to get rid of plastic. Thank you.
Alright, that's pretty amazing stuff there. So the next one we're bringing up is Veronika, and she's representing Demodesk.
Good evening Web Summit. I'm Veronika, co founder and CEO of Demodesk. We are building the first intelligent online meeting tool for inside sales and customer service professionals with the vision to enable anyone to work Great customer conversation by using a unique approach to web conferencing. Inside says that it says done remotely via email, phone and web conferencing tools, rather than meeting face to face is a huge and rapidly growing field. And Francis hard. Mastering the Art of Sales requires a unique combination of natural skills, years of experience and strong product expertise. So why are the web conferencing tools that are being used today and insights it's still purely functional. They hardly offer anything besides plain vanilla video calling and local desktop sharing. We change that. we redefine web conferencing by using a unique approach to screen sharing. existing tools record the presenters local desktop screen we set up A virtual display instead that anyone can access by just clicking a link. There no downloads required, and control can instantly be shared with anyone. By using this virtual display, we can automatically preload the right presentation content, provide real time guidance on the presenters side without the customer seeing it and have significantly more data to analyze than existing tools. For us, the video that's being shared is not just a video, we exactly know what's being shared at which point in time. We are building the first intelligent online meeting tool for customer facing conversations. Today, Demodesk is being used by over 100 fast growing companies. We have our customers increase close rates, automate the entire workflow from scheduling of preparation to CRM, logging and scaling to By integrating states onboarding and coaching right into the meeting flow. We were part of Y Combinator earlier this year and just raised our seed John and Silicon Valley. Now we're looking for great people to join the team and customers that want to work with us. Thank you.
Veronika. That was a fantastic pitch. So, have we seen the winner of pitch 2019? It's possible, but we're not sure. So it could be this next company. They're called Frame and the presenting founder. His name is Ben. Please welcome Ben to the stage.
Hello, how we all do it today. It's so great to be here.
So although we may not realize it, we are all right now in the middle of a news crisis. Nearly 700 Americans are overwhelmed by the amount of news coming at them every single day. And worse, 41% of them are actively avoiding it. Now, this trend isn't only happening in the US, this is happening in the UK, the Europe around the world, even in Japan, which is the most devout news reading country and the world. Now, let's take a step back and think about this for a second, nearly half of the US population is not watching the unfolding of our democracy. They're not paying attention to the issues that are going to affect the future, the policy, the social and political issues of our time. We need a new approach to journalism. So that's why in July of 2018, I quit my job as a journalist to found frame. Now frame is a digital magazine. And we publish interactive, immersive documentaries made for mobile phones. What we do is take the incredible tradition of narrative nonfiction that so many All of us love netflix documentaries like making a murder, and podcast like cereal and we're bringing that to mobile video where our generation spends nearly four hours a day.
Now we take this a step further
And integrate interactive features throughout our stories that allow users to dive deeper into the story exploring timelines. Maps. Users tell us when they get into a Framestore. They feel like it's this interactive museum that they want to spend time in a rare space on our phones that we actually want to be an aware space on our phone that makes us care. Think about how many of us are distracted by social media and don't feel good about it. After we use it frame is trying to change that. Now we're seeing the frame format is working in amazing ways. The average watch time for a sample Framestore is three minutes and 24 seconds. The average watch time for a video on Facebook is 17 seconds. We are outperforming Facebook by 12 x. And our average session duration is more than two x of that of the average of the top 50 news publishers in the US. Now, frame monetizes through a three part strategy. One, we are a subscription based membership community. We believe that media needs to be membership driven. And we are building that future to we are licensing out or one of a kind CMS that every time you publish get smarter, getting new, interactive features in it, and we're giving it to brands so they can make their own mobile interactive stories. And then three, we are building these stories for brands so they can tell character driven stories that help shine a light on the issues that matter to them. Now really quick, a little bit more about our team, frame was launched publicly in March of 2018. We had the fortune of being accepted into snap Inc yellow accelerator this past summer receiving our first investment. And right now we're just starting to raise our seed round in order to take frame to the next level. Please join us creating the future of media.
Thank you so, so much.
All right. Thanks, Ben. That was great. So center stage audience. Have we seen the winner? Yes, no. All right, well, we're halfway through. And I don't really envy the panel of judges here. But let's invite the next startup, and they are called Klaus. And please welcome Martin to the stage.
Hello, everybody. My name is Martin then. I've been overseeing customer facing organizations for the past eight years. Most recently, I was the Global Head of customer support that a company called pipe drive where I hired more than 100 people into customer facing roles. And the thing that I learned over this time Was that how you talk to customers determines whether you succeed as a business or not. And what I also learned was that how you improve the way you talk to customers is by giving lots of systematic systematic feedback to your customer support agents. Now, I'm not the only one that has figured this out. Most customer support organizations have a process that resembles code review and engineering or the editorial process in writing by which they peers go back and give feedback to each other so that they can learn. Now where this becomes a big problem is if you have a very large to support organization, imagine if you have 500 support agents spread across the globe. Let's say you have 10 different offices, and you do millions of support interactions every month. That is the reality for many large organizations. So how would you go about starting some kind of review process? Did you do it manually, right. So if you We don't have any tools you do it in spreadsheets, which means that large organizations are spending 10s of thousands of hours every month just to give some feedback to their customers. So therefore, we created Klaus Klaus is a SAS platform that enables you to give lots of systematic detailed feedback to your support agents and improve systematically. That is how you reduce churn. That is how you improve conversion. That is how you recruit improve retention. We have dozens of specialized features, we have customers that do 10s of thousands reviews every month. Here are some of them. These are the customers that do these reviews every single month, and they save more than 90% of the time over the manual process. Like connects to your SOS Help Desk like Zendesk or Intercom and shows you your support interactions in context. A little bit more about the team I was at pipe drive. My co founder Kaiser was the product marketing director of pipe drive. our CTO was an early employee of Skype, we've raised more than 2 million euros in funding. And more than half a million reviews have been done on the platform. Now, I have 30 seconds left. So I guess I'll talk about cat food. Because I mean, what else? So if you go to Klaus app that Klaus app.com slash Web Summit, then we will give you some free cat foods. Now obviously, giving away free cat food would be idiotic. I wouldn't spend 30 seconds talking about cat food, would I? But now you kind of need to go to this URL and check out what it what it's actually about. Thank you.
Good job, Martin. We respect that T shirt as well. The next pitch is number 10. And the company is Eversend and so please welcome presenting for Eversend, Stone. 
Hi, my name is Stone. I'm the founder and CEO of Eversend, Africa's fast neo Bank. I read something the other day where somebody says this is an 100 trillion dollar opportunity. And I don't know how much money that is. I don't think anybody knows. But I think its massive. It's big.
So people in Africa struggle with expensive inconvenience and disconnected financial services. And what we've decided to do is to solve this problem with ever sent 66% of Africans do not have a bank account. sending money from some countries like South Africa, to Botswana costs up to 21%. It's unlimited Mobile it's true. access to insurance in Africa is 2%. And access to credit is 7%. Yet on the continent we have half a billion mobile money users. So Arison is taking this opportunity of everybody using mobile money and saying let's provide services to our customers. The first problem we are dealing with is cross border money transfer within Africa because it's massive. But generally what we're building is a full digital bank with offline access. With a marketplace where other financial service providers can sell their products like insurance. We've got low cost, we provide microcredit we do payments for bills, electricity and things like this. And like I say before, we are leveraging mobile money. So this is what our product looks like.
Money transfer, they have Virtual debit cards insurance, offline access very important in a continent where access to the internet is very limited. And of course payments. Like I said before, it's a massive market. This is just thinking about the two or three countries we are in right now. Digital credits about 1.5 billion opportunity insurance, money transfers, huge, huge market. Our business model is simple. We met commission from our partners, so people who sell insurance or things like that on our platform. We make foreign exchange commission from trans transfers and currency exchange. We have interchange fees and interest income when we lend. We launched seven months ago, we've moved about 700,000 US dollars, as of this morning, 12,000 transactions and about 50,000 downloads. That's our growth right there on the screen. And this is our team. This is our advantage kind of also our competitive advantage. We understand this market. Really, really well. I have massive experience building financial products on the continent. My previous startup offered us the best loans on mobile money. And Emma is amazing. worked at Bridgewater, the UN, and Ronaldo is a rock star developer. These are some of our partners. And yeah, that's it. That's Eversend. Thank you very much.
All right. I'm excited for the next startup because I love cats, and I love banjos. So let's welcome the founder to the stage Kate of Banjo Robinson.
Hello. When I was growing up, my dad would write letters And leave them around the house for me to find. I loved them. So much so that as an adult, I did the same thing for my friends children. I wrote letters from a traveling cat this time, and I signed them with appropriate and I found that children, even reluctant readers and writers started writing back to the cat. Why? Children are wired for connection and they absolutely love magic and make believed and I realized there was an opportunity to totally transform the way that we teach children to read and write, to turn it into a game. And that's exactly what we're doing at banjo Robinson. So banjo is a globe trotting cat who sends proper paper post real personalized letters and creative activities to children twice a month from really exciting places around the world like the Taj Mahal and the Great Wall of China, from Indonesia and Iceland. And he writes to children about what he's been up Hou he's met the cultures and the phenomena that he sees. And children writes a reply. They leave it under the sofa before they go to bed and in the morning, they will have found that it's disappeared magically overnight. So a little bit like the tooth fairy some parents are enrolled. But banjo our platform can respond at scale to the questions that the children might have asked him and those will be reflected in the next letter that they receive. So we've taken the joy of writing to Father Christmas quality time with parent and child away from screens, and we've married that with a subscription business model, which allows us to print personalized children's literature twice a month, every month, we work with award winning children's children's authors, but instead of printing 40,000 books and sitting on that stock with zero inventory, just in time fulfillment with a positive cash conversion cycle. We're at the nexus of three fast growth markets. And our team and advisors are world leaders and personalized print entity Edelman ed tech and children's IP and children's love writing to banjo, so in our product Trotta with moms net 90% of children aged five to eight wrote back to banjo of their own volition, and it's a double buyer incentive parents are just as excited with the highest level of parental engagement that Mumsnet have ever seen on a product trial. And we're impacting the home lining environment and classrooms to and abroad in Asia, Europe and South America. banjos letters are beginning to teach children English. But banjo isn't just a character that children see on TV is their actual friend. They really care about him and that's why we're not just a subscription business. We're building a global brand, a universe of banjo Robinson and friends with super exciting products for older children and development and educational merchandise, TV, toys and a bunch of fun stuff for children in the pipeline. We are huge Heroes of Sesame Street and its original, disruptive creative Sesame Workshop and I'm really excited to announce that we've just closed a seven figure pre seed investment round with our dream lead investors, Caleb plus sesame. So we're banjo Robinson and we are all about a mission to transform the way that all children everywhere learn to read, write and understand their world. And we hope you'll join us.
Thank you.
Nicely done, Kate. Everyone here knows it is not easy to stand up here in front of thousands of people at center stage and thousands of people online but you're all doing a great job. This trend is going to continue with our next presenter. The company is Nutrix in the pitch spot number 12. Please welcome Maria
Welcome. It's amazing to be here in Lisbon really great in front of you. I assume that some of you think what happened to my hand. So I arrived here in Portugal a few days before because I wanted to enjoy also some surfing. And unfortunately I had the accident. And I ended up in the hospital here. And when I started to talk with the doctor about the Web Summit and our product, he said you will change medicine. So today, I would like to tell you how at Nutrix, we will change medicine, with the biosensors starting with the monitoring of glucose, so the glucose is just the beginning. So we are developing the high tech nano sensor that is using the nanoparticles we are placing the sensor like a Speaker on the tooth and we are detecting with gold nanoparticles, the glucose in the saliva. So this is a completely new approach to the monitoring of glucose. We are sending this information to the external up. So the patient is informed about the level of the glucose but as I said glucose is just the beginning is the beginning because the biosensors are just developing. And we can monitor so much more information from the saliva. We are starting with glucose because it's one of the biggest markets. So as you know that we this is a global emergency. There are 425 million people with diabetes today, one in 11 and the number we are increased to 625 million Mostly in developing countries. That's why we also need to look for more cost efficient ways of monitoring the glucose. And also, for less invasive treatments. No tricks is non invasive, patient friendly and invisible. Also, as we are monitoring the information from the saliva, we get super useful information about the Muse of the patients that can be useful song for the artificial pancreas. This inflammation is unbelievable for the algorithm. And this can also improve the treatment for the diabetes patients. This is our team. We started as MIT both come with Nikki and we also have in the team, the nano sensors engineers, so we have everything to bring this product to the market. We are here to open the new space for whatever biosensors. Thank you.
I think that lady is the happiest lady to have broken her hand. That's amazing. All right. If you're like me, you love to go traveling. But if you're also like me you hate the planet. So I think this next startup will be very exciting. Let's give a round of applause for Gregory from BeRightBack.
Good evening, everyone. My name is Gregory Geny. I'm the co founder and CEO of BeRightBack the world's first travel subscription service. I want to start off by telling you a little story. I did a lot of traveling in my 20s and early 30s. And this is the process I went through every single time. But if you think about travel, the only thing that I care about as a customer is going on my trip and sharing my experiences. Yet the reality is that it takes 10 hours to research and book a weekend break usually spread across a number of weeks. And this research process has been carved into multiple billion dollar industries, with brands competing for my attention. And whilst I'm engaging with all these brands, and trying to figure out where to go and where to stay, flight prices are rising. And this is preventing people from traveling. So that's where BRB come from, by taking the entire purchase journey out of the equation and shortening it down to one simple question. When do you want to go and our subscription model is incredibly simple. You pay 50 pounds a month. For that you get three trips per year flight Hotels included, and its destination is a surprise. And here's how it works. You create your accounts and set your travel preferences. You choose your plan, and you create your trip in less than 60 seconds. And one month before travel will send you a postcard to reveal your destination. So you go away with brb and have an amazing trip. And here's the thing with an amazing experience. You want to do it again straight away. And with BRB, you can do just that in less than 60 seconds, the minute you get home, so we've turned something quite painful, into the most convenient and exciting lifestyle brand for travelers, which has real traction. We've already sent customers to 50 destinations across Europe, and we are well on track to deliver 65,000 trips over the next three years and destruction has led to press across some of the leading media publications in the world and press is great for what really matters to us. that our customers love us. With 97% of them rating their experience at excellent are great. And not only do they love us, they are loyal to with an average churn rate of 3% for customers taking two or more breaks with VOB. This is something the market hasn't seen before, but we're not stopping there. on the supply side we are flipping the entire model on its head. Gone are the days of hotels, marketing their room through a range of distribution channels with no guarantee on occupancy. brb feels hotels will go guaranteed customers traveling with us and we have complete capacity of travel sourcing, we select the destination and we select the hotel, which means we can leverage our buying power to negotiate better margins and guarantee hotels higher occupancy. And over time we know exactly how to drive revenue because we know exactly what to sell and when to sell it. For example, leveraging a Facebook data to sell you a room of great because we know you're traveling on your wedding anniversary or concert tickets because we From a Spotify playlist, but if every band is playing you there that week, and all of this is disrupting a 63 billion pound industry in the UK, one that's grown 29% since 2012. And even if it kept your 1% of this market, this business will generate 500 million in annual recurring revenue. So really excited because all the key leaders are pointing in the right direction, huge market, robust growth, Predictable Revenue, great Kak to LTV ratio, a clear way to driving growth margin and customers lovers. And this is the Tim behind the business, which was set up by Alex, my co founder and myself. And I've personally spent 15 years accelerating businesses and eight years in the travel sector. So we be right back, and we the most exciting lifestyle brand for travelers. Thank you.
Well done Gregory. Three pitches left. The next company is called Pynk. And for this one, we actually have two presenters coming out on stage. So please welcome the dynamic duo of Rupert and Seth
Wow, that's a bit bigger than I thought it would be. Thank you very much for coming here and seeing us talk about pink today.
Hi everyone. My name is Seth ward. I am a serial tech entrepreneur. And a couple of years ago, I exited a business called scout seven. And we used a combination of something called Wisdom of Crowds together with expert human insight to help pro football clubs make smart investment decisions, specifically choosing which players to buy. Since then, I've invested all my time and money, tackling a bigger problem with pink which is this time helping everyday people to make smart, safe sustainable investment decisions, but this time augmented with the power of artificial intelligence.
Because everyday investors truly have a monumental problem on their hands, the odds are stacked against them. 76% of Western millennials Financially illiterate. This means $1.4 trillion a year is invested badly or what's worse, not invested at all. Now, this is going to create a colossal generational problem, and it's something that we need to solve. Now we believe we've got the solution for that. We gamify and we democratize the investment process. We allow people to work as a global team to drive one single investment fund. We've got nine and a half thousand global users right now. And that drives our crowd wisdom system, our special sauce.
So those users are rewarded financially for coming into our app every day and making investment recommendations. The data provided by the cloud is then fed into our artificial intelligence, which looks at each user's historic track record and success rates in making those predictions along with other data from the market, and tells us who to trade with and who to trade against for any particular asset at any particular point in time. The third part of the decision making process is our expert panelists. who bring their own human insight into play along with technical analysis, and make their own recommendation. And it's only when those three distinct forms of intelligence agree on a trade that we make a trade.
Our crowd wisdom and AI approach has allowed us to return more than 9.5%. In the last three months alone, we're focusing this on the four and a half trillion dollar millennial investment market. And we're most focused on right now the 220 $1 billion spent by 28 to 45 year olds, who are more entrepreneurial, entrepreneurial mindset.
So we have a really simple business model, we take a monthly management fee from our users of naught point one 2% of assets under management, and that comes through two channels. So it's direct to consumer through our app. But we're also partnering with challenge banks, financial institutions whose customers want to make those sorts smart, sustainable ethical investments.
A rock star team have built systems for BlackRock, JP Morgan Google Yoola Lever I could go on. We've got the team that we believe that can build it with a business with the ultimate upside. We've been supported by some of the world's biggest banks with and we made it here to Web Summit semi final. So we're really proud and pumped about that. Thank you, everybody. Thank you.
So we define a new category of team investing, where our users collaborate, to make smart, safe, sustainable investment decisions. 
What could be better than as fun designed by the people for the people that makes ethical tech for good investments that benefits everybody, globally? Thank you.
Thanks, guys. Now we move on to our penultimate pitch of the semi final Please welcome Andre from Barkyn to the stage
Hello Web Summit I'm Andre, founder of Barkyn, a subscription service delivering happiness to pets with food and health combined. So you pay us. So you pay us around 40 euro, and you receive a custom box for your dog with a specific recipe for dog plus a dedicated vet a dedicated doctor on our platform. We've impacted more than 26,000 customers in Spain, Italy and Portugal. And each month, at least 68% of our revenues come from repeated customers. Our clients is strongly connected to us. And an NPS of ad shows that the best in class. In the last six months. We doubled our run rate and we have now Monthly revenues above 300 K. All this is possible with a great team, eight nationalities, top talent from companies like Google, Farfetch, and rocket and the management team who did it before from seats multiple countries, raising fast scaling fast. barking is so much more than a business. It's part of our customers lives. We've ignited local communities in 14 European cities where our customers gather to socialize every week. We make a difference by being there with our community, a personal message from your vets, and a specific recipe for your dog. And now we're taking it to a whole new level.
We'll be closer to our customers and what's closer than going to their homes will be there with a smart box connected to our app that knows exactly when your dog needs a food refill. Or just the right advice.
We presenting the magic box, a smart box that assures your dog's happiness and your peace of mind. The magic box is an elegant enjoyable container for your dogs. That helps you save time. Plus improve your dog's health. It learns how you feed your dog, predicting the exact date and time for me to read. No more clicks or checkouts. to tailor to your dog will arrive at your doorstep automatically using sophisticated AI. The Magic Box also gives you advice on your dog's diet and shares personalized tips for a healthier and happier life. And all of this is controlled by you through our intuitive app. In a nutshell, true happiness in a box Parkin let the magic begin
Let the magic begin cuz ecommerce is becoming super cold and transactional. We just speaking to robots at barking we want to bring a human connection back to e commerce out of a market we live. We didn't experience May just for you. Thank you already go
Hold on Andre. So 15 have pitched there's one left. So a warm welcome for Christoph from goodbag
Hello Web Summit. Hello jury. My name is Christoph. I'm co founder and CEO of goodbag 1 trillion plastic bags are used for every year for an average of only 20 minutes climate change and plastic pollution a global challenges Imagine a world where you can change that every time you go shopping. With Good back, you can do exactly that. Good back is a smart use of a shopping bag that enables you to plant trees against climate change, clean plastic waste out of the ocean and receive a discount every time you bring your own back to the store. How does it work? Every good bag has a small NFC chip integrated in a good bag logo that connects contactless the to your phone. You just bring your Good back when you go shopping. In the shop, you open up the Good back app Chewse to support a project for example, planting a tree or cleaning plastic waste of the ocean or receiving a discount. Now you just hold your phone close to the Good back logo and scan it to activate the discount coupon or to plant a tree. It's simple as that. for users Good back provides creates a gamified experience that makes it fun and rewarding to protect the environment. shows them their positive impact on the environment in real time.
For retailers, Good back is a brand new way to interact with the customers. We offer them a customer experiences service that enables them to interact with Lee that enables them to interactively protect the environment together with the customers in order to win new customers that care about the environment. Communicate corporate social responsibility in a truly interactive way, and increase customer loyalty. Good back can be easily tailored to our customers needs within minutes, they can choose their own rewards and project that they want to support. Of course, our technology can also be integrated in any kind of reusable shopping back. This already convinced large companies like Painter was the Swiss retailer or London Heathrow Airport, which with over 80 million Yoola passengers is Europe's biggest airport to become our clients. Today, we sold over 70,000 good backs and signed over 1000 stores in five countries. Thanks to these clients, we already generated over 300,000 euros in revenue before we even launched the app, currently facing demand from some of the world's largest retailers. This is all possible because of a world class team of designers, developers, and behavioral economists who all are determined on our mission to plant 1 billion trees. How do we make money our business model is quite simple. We charge companies initial setup fee, and the yearly maintenance fee for using our service. On top of that we directly sell them our backs, or just NFC chip to be integrated in any back. Future revenue streams will be coming from monetizing our user base through new services that are basically new new products. Marketing like advertisement retargeting, for example, or new services and features that we add to our service. Thank you. And I would like to invite you to start thinking outside the back, download our app, get a goodbag and join us on our mission to make the world better together. Thank you.
Center stage audience. Huge round of applause for Christoph. And for all 16 semi finalists, they were amazing. So the judges scores are now going to be collected. We have this incredible wireless scoring slideshow system and it seems to be working so we're going to get to the results fairly quickly here. We just wanted to get a bit of a reaction from some of the judges on what they thought of the company's I'll start with my my friend Casey over there. If you want to
Alright oh, I have Lucy Liu here who is the founder of Airwallex. As a founder, Lucy, what do you think? Which was the best one? And why did you like them?
So I have to say a name.
Yeah. Just tell everybody, what would you think?
Um, I think I'm personally just very interesting, Mandy, because it's not something I understand. So I think the two medical tech startups that pitched were really, really good. And I think it's something that requires a lot of expertise, in addition to you know, like, making it marketable, could bring it to the market, and there's a little barrier for other startups to disrupt that place. So yeah, those two are my favorite.
Do you have any advice for them as a starting starting up and grow and expanding their business,
Um, I do think is very hard to roll out. These couple of products just because there's a really big learning curve for market like for the general public as well as any partners that you want to work with? So I think putting a more in a easier to understand like scenario probably be the best for them to really get some good traction in the early days. Right.
Thank you very much.
Yeah. So I remember one year ago on the stage, you had I gave you this mic and you had like, complete laryngitis. You couldn't speak. So this is the redo. This is your moment. Which company here would you say was the most inspiring in terms of the presentation and most investable for you as an investor?
Well, I'm, I'm not speechless anymore.
Yeah, I can speak but well, many of them. I really like the entrepreneurs who think have a positive impact. So they are not trying to convert business opportunities into financial results, but rather make some positive impact and think about sustainability. So So this one comes to mind. Well, I really like the last one. So we definitely would need more trees in order to make Paper Paper packaging instead of plastic bags.
So she picked Christoph from goodbag, I believe. Okay, Casey. 
Okay. Arthur from Lenovo. Just pick one pick who is your favorite one? 
For me? 
Yeah. 
Qwarzo. 
Who? 
Qwarzo.
Qwarzo why?
Because it was so fundamental. There's plastic literally in everything. And it can use this oil, it consumes a lot of resource and it's causing pollution externally on all the throwaway. So the waste is tremendous to go from that to something that is it's just so broadly applicable, if the products can be used in all the scenarios that they're saying the Impact. I think it's an example of doing well and doing good on massive scale.
Okay, great. So that was your favorite startup. Which one do you think had the strongest presentation though? The one who had the best like pitch that really wants
That was the best presentation for me, which was so surprising because it was very different than my expectation was Banjo Robinson. Yeah, right. The name is fabulous, I think because it definitely catches your attention. And then the way that they appeal to the inner kid and all of us to really use technology, not to get kids to spend more time in front of screens, but to develop lifelong reading habits I found particularly compelling. 
I think it's amazing that she'll have the Cookie Monster on our cap table. Right?
So you know, this good lucky man here, I like the vest. Where do you work? And, and which company did you pick as your favorite?
I mean, I wish I could choose choose all of them. That was an amazing, amazing series of pitches. My favorite one I think is Eversend. I just think it's such a huge market there. And they just, it's just a really good mission. And the second one that comes to mind is BeRightBack. I wanted to take out my phone and download the app because I hate booking trips. So I was actually really exciting. 
So Eversend from Africa
Yep, Stone. 
Right and BeRightBack
BRB yeah.
Great. Okay.
Well this sounds really hard Sunil I think nobody there's no clear winner this year. They're all over the place. So what we've done so the slideshow iPads have now registered all the judges votes. And we're ready to announce the three victorious startups who will take part in the pitch final tomorrow and they are backstage. Drumroll please.
Look at them. So happy. So excited to find out look at them. Know that guy's excited. Hopefully he made it. Okay, maybe they have Wi Fi or
It's not clear to me that maybe they tabulated all the scores. I still see a few and Okay, great happening up here. So let's give them another minute. We will remind the audience that today, the winning companies are selected entirely by these judges. But tomorrow at the pitch final, which again is at 12:30pm. Here on this stage, there will be a fourth judge and that will be you so you'll be able to go through the app and vote on the company that you believe should be actually the winner of pitch 2019 here at Web Summit. That'll be tomorrow at 12:30pm. So Casey, that was my time stall. I'm going to give you the mic now to tell us a little bit about what maybe what it's like being a Canadian living in Hong Kong.
No let's let's ask a more of the judges for more information here. Well, how about yourself, which would you like?
I would go with Eversend as well. I do have a certain bias towards sales companies, we tend to invest in them a lot. So I like Demodesk a lot as well. But Everesnd one of my favorites as well.
Okay, great. All right. But yourself. You You put your iPad away really quickly, so you must have a clear winner.
Not a clear winner. I actually liked some of them really well. But for me, BeRightBack, certainly very promising one because I can identify myself with the issue of booking travels. But also the Demodesk and some other companies are really like,
Okay, well well, well. Isn't that interesting. So here are the three finalists. I think they're going to come out stage. I'll start with the there are no order, but I'll just start with the third on the list, which is BeRightBack.
BeRightBack.
Come on out. 
The next.
The next one is
Nutrix, 
Nutrix. 
And Banjo Robinson
And Banjo Robinson.
I think they're coming out.
Here they come. All right. Oh, right. That's how you doing break your hand away. Great. Alright, so we just want to do a quick one quick one. One sentence one minute. How do you feel right now? 
Pretty happy
How about yourself.
Very happy.
Yeah, we know that.
Let's go. 
I couldn't be happier. It's amazing to be here.
Three happy people three. Only one will really be happy on a flight out of Lisbon I think so we'll find out tomorrow around lunchtime. see you here on center stage.