
The old myth in technology is that the further you're located away from Silicon Valley, the less chance you have to succeed. We know that's not true. Our next session aims to debunk that myth, as we hear from four founders who have built billion dollar companies in Hong Kong, Columbia, Australia and Estonia. Alongside the moderator for this panel, Adam Satariano of The New York Times, everyone, please welcome to the stage. Lucy Liu, Co founder and President of FinTech unicorn from Hong Kong Airwallex, Juan Pablo Ortega, co founder of Rappi, the on demand delivery startup taking Latin America by storm, co founder and CEO of design powerhouse Canva, Melanie Perkins, and founder and CEO of the fastest growing ride sharing platform in the world, Bolt, Markus Villig.
Hello, hello, hello. Well here we want to give a kind of a cheat code of how some of the entrepreneurs and startup workers here can become billion dollar companies like you all have. So, so Melanie to start, what are some of the underappreciated challenges that you that you confront of being a company outside of Silicon Valley and growing to the size that you have?
Hello, everyone. I think that the fun thing of growing a company is that every single stage of the company's journey brings new challenges. I started out in this journey 12 years ago with our first company trying to make design really simple for school year books. And at that point in time was like, how do we make money really quickly? How do we get customers? How do we market? And then all of a sudden it became how do we raise money? How do we build a tech team? And so at each single stage, there's been so many challenges. But I think that for entrepreneurship, I'm sure we can all agree, it's absolutely critical to love challenges, because you're going to have many of them along the journey.
Yeah. Markus, I'm curious how you navigate having a bigger company in the same space that you are. So what, how do you make decisions around when to go where they are not, versus to take them on head to head?
Hello, everyone. I think for us, the good framework how to think about it has been that there's some industries where we have very strong global network effects. And you have some industries where a local touch doesn't really matter. And those are industries where typically Silicon Valley dominates. But we're lucky enough to be in transportation where actually the opposite is true. So this is a city by city industry we're in. So you can be the best in London, it doesn't make you any better in Paris. And you need to start from scratch. So that's one of the things we've got really right by focusing on localization and being really great at operations in every single city we're in. The other part is, I think, really around the brand and and what you actually stand for. So what we increasingly see is that people, after a certain point, see the services pretty similarly. But if one of them actually is more beneficial to the local community, for example, has a better environmental impact, then increasingly, people start to shift over. And that's something we're focused on.
You recently entered London, which is one of Uber's biggest markets on the planet. What are some of the challenges or successes that you've seen there thus far?
Overall, as you said, London is is the second biggest ride hailing market in the Western world. And it has so far been really suffering from a monopoly as many other cities across Europe and Africa have been so far. And what monopolies usually lead to is that the drivers are not very happy, because they're being squeezed out of margins. And on the same side, customers are not very happy because they're being overcharged, and they don't have a really many choices. So we've tried to change that now across Europe, and we see in 45 countries, it's a model that works. People actually want to see some local champions succeed in transportation and support them.
Lucy, tell us a little bit about Airwallex. And I'm curious about how you think about when you get to a bigger you get to a big enough size, companies are going to see the success that you're having and want to come in and move in it. So how do you prepare for having these bigger companies come in?
Yeah, sure. Um, I think in the payment space has been in existence for you know, a couple of decades already. So in terms of innovation, we're definitely not the first one in the game. But I think one good thing about being a tech startup is that you move very quickly. And we all have that growth mindset. And when we're working with larger companies, we always try to pitch as a partner as opposed to a competitor because you really can only have so much resource for you know certain things. And is not something that a big company can succeed in, because they already have the legacy technology, they already have the infrastructure in place, and to change that will cost billions of dollars, a lot of people and it's just not something that they should be focused on. And instead, with the partnership model, we can both benefit from it. And but you know, nevertheless, there's still a lot of bigger companies trying trying to move into this space because it's just such a big pie for everyone.
Juan Pablo, what a common perception at least is that it's much harder to raise money if you're not in Silicon Valley. Did you experience that? What were some of the hurdles that you overcame?
Yes, 100%. I think trying to raise money outside of Silicon Valley used to be difficult. We were one of the first companies that got investment from Silicon Valley's biggest VCs. And still is an issue to try to get the right valuation. If you're outside of the US, you are going to be valued less than any other company. So we have to we actually have to work harder to grow much more than a US company just to be able to get the same valuation. But it has changed, and I think we have changed the paradigm and now it's becoming easier to raise money outside of Silicon Valley.
What is Rappi for those who don't know explain explain it.
Rappi is the biggest Super Hub in in Latin America. We deliver everything from groceries to food and even cash.
What's the strangest thing that's ever been delivered?
So many, many things, I think.
We tried to make the life of the users easier. So if they need to get a document from point A to point B, or if they need to order food for 15 people, we are there to help them.
One of the reasons in which Silicon Valley has had some success is just the general wealth generation and there is no the opportunity become very, very rich. And there's a perception at least that perhaps that doesn't exist in the same way outside of their do you what do you think of that Mel?
You know, early days, when we're pitching Canva, we'd already had a profitable company, we'd already grown a product and prove we could do those sorts of things. We spent it was three years between initially finding an investor and actually landing and initially pitching an investor and actually landing investment. And people would constantly reject us and say, we don't invest in a company that we can't write our bicycle to and a whole host of other reasons, along similar lines. But I think that as we've started to be able to prove out what Canva can do, we've been able to really benefit from both worlds, we've been able to attract the world's best talent to come to Sydney, Australia and even from Silicon Valley itself. And at the same time, we've been able to also tap into the expertise of people in Silicon Valley who'd been in scaled the companies before and the investor network there. So I think if you can get the get it right, you can really get the best of both worlds of being able to build a really solid tech team outside the valley. Apparently, the average time that an engineer stays in the valleys like 13 months or 15 months, I don't know how you build a company like that. So I think you can really tap into both to both networks.
Markus talked about what it's like to recruit. You're in Estonia. How hard is it to recruit engineers there?
Well, we're lucky enough in Estonia to have the best climate in the world. 
Debatably.
A lot of people love the snow. So I don't think that's a thing going for us. But what we do have is that there's a growing number of really great tech companies in Estonia. Skype had their biggest engineering office there already 10 years ago, transfer wise is one of the bigger success stories, Bolt, and now many other companies are building there. So once you already have this ecosystem in place, it's pretty easy for engineers to move over, because they know that there's a big selection of companies there, and they can stay there for a long time. So increasingly, they're happy to move there with families. And the benefit of being there is just, again, people stay a lot longer. So you can actually invest substantially more when you know your team is going to be there for three or five years. And the benefit is we actually see they're actually in many cases just much more cost effective to be in Estonia. So even though engineers might cost half the money in in Eastern Europe than in the US, the life quality is oftentimes better, we will actually you get the benefit both on the employee side and as a company, you can actually compete much more successfully
Lucy, I want to get your thoughts about regulation you're in sort of work in the payments finance world where it's there's a great deal of oversight. How can different regulations in different countries affect how you operate and how you grow?
Um, we we've had a roadmap for licensing ever since day one. And that roadmap never really became the accurate source of choose just because things can move. Usually a lot slower than we anticipated. And even in our pitch decks, we have like all we can look at licenses in x y Zed countries in the next year, and it never happens because regulators change their mind or you know, there's certain things that just didn't work out the way we do. We want it to so now we have this whole process where we follow follow and we trying to make a market entry into certain restricted countries. And you often find that payments is restricted wherever you go. But in that case, it also creates a barrier, because it's not as easy for other companies to also enter into that market. And I think regulators have very similar mindset when they are approaching, you know, think tanks and, you know, startups in general. So I think, having had, you know, four or five successful licenses so far, it's getting a lot easier for us. And I do think regulators are becoming more open minded because they recognize the need for companies like ours to exist in the ecosystem, and not just, you know, traditional banks or, you know, local banks that really are, you know, only operating in the local market.
How about you talk a little bit about the the regulations that you confront?
Yeah. So for us, we operate in nine different countries, all with different regulations, and we're working really closely with them and trying to understand what they're looking for and how we We can work together to change the lives of people, we, in the delivery side, we're actually increasing the income of these drivers and their careers up to twice or sometimes three times where we're making before and we're trying to find ways to comply with regulations. And in the payment space, we have Rappi pay, which is a banking in South America, we're making extremely easy to open a bank account in a country like Mexico or more than 70% of the people who have bank accounts. So trying to make it easy to open a bank account. And right now we're life without in a way that you can open a bank account in three steps. You take a picture of your ID, you take a picture of your face and you have a bank account open and you can receive a debit card in less than 30 minutes. So we're already making it happen, but we have to work closely with regulations to make sure all of these is legal.
Melanie, have you thought about when to focus on your home market Australia vs. Expanding globally?
So one of the concepts that I love is starting niche and going wide. And that's certainly what we did with fusion books, our first company that was very much focused on the Australian market of ebooks, very niche very, like geographically bound. And then with Canva, in 2016, we launched in 20 languages, then 2017, we launched in 100 languages. And then last year, we focused on some of the hard languages that we launched in China and right to less languages like Arabic and Hebrew and Urdu. I guess our one of our philosophies is that we want to make sure the designs accessible to everyone. And so in order to do that we've invested really heavily in localization. And there's been a huge effort to do that. But we're now using 190 countries across the globe. So it's pretty cool to see that philosophy actually starting to come to life.
Markus, what is some of the data that you're looking at when you're deciding which markets to go into what sort of jumps out at you when you You decide that yes, Bolt should go here. But let's not go somewhere else.
Good framework for us has always been that it only makes sense to go to a new city if we can be the best provider in that city. And in ride sharing or transportation, that's pretty simple. So can we actually be more attractive to the drivers? So they make more money with us? Can we be more affordable for passengers to get around? Can we offer a cheaper service? Is it is it faster? I do we have more payment methods or a more localized product in some sense. So that's always been the guiding framework. And in practice, what that means is that we look at cities that only have essentially a monopoly because usually when that it's the same problems I was talking about earlier that just monopolies start to be used their position. So it's, it's very clear for us that those are the best opportunities for us to go after and have a much better customer experience.
Juan Pablo, how do you think about expansion
So we actually look at countries that that makes sense, you know, where traffic is hectic where the economics makes sense. So it's kind of similar to what Marcus was saying, we will try to look for, for people on four countries where there is a necessity for deliveries and where it makes sense just to order food than to take your car and drive for hours in traffic and then finding parking spots. So right now we're expanding Latin America, and we're looking at the biggest markets and trying to find the cities where where Rappi Make sense. And we're actually making in the life of the people easier.
Culture question, the sort of Silicon Valley approach to technology startups, it has sort of gotten a great deal of criticism of late, some of it well deserved, I think. And so I'm curious how you think about wanting to achieve some of the success that these companies had without necessarily a adopting some of their more unsavory business practices. So how do you try and square that?
Culture is an incredibly strong focus for us. You know, back in my mom's living room, we used to always have lunch together. And it might have been this leftovers or whatever the we were having. But I think that that has been a tradition that we've continued ever since like having lunch together, getting to know each other as humans. I think that the way we've gone about deciding the sort of company and culture that we want to create has been very much driven from first principles. And I think that it Canva we have an incredibly collaborative culture. And we have a huge focus on achieving goals together as a team, which I think is in quite contrast to a lot of the coaches that are at other companies. So for example, we set crazy goals and make them happen as one of our values. And so for example, we've released doves, and we've smashed great plates and we've done all sorts of funny things. But it's after we put together a big goal that we're working towards, and we all rally together to achieve that. And I think that those sorts of philosophies really come down to a DNA you can't sort of, you know, just paste on some culture on top or paste on some values. So I think it's really important when you're setting out with a company to think very carefully about the sort of culture and the sort of company that you're wanting to create. Because I think it's impossibly hard to go and change those sorts of things down the road.
Lucy, a curious what you think, are there things that you see from Silicon Valley companies that you don't want to let up?
Um, I think, you know, the artists have great we have people who have left Valley for certain reasons and join the companies outside the valley. So
what are the what are the reasons that that these people give?
A lot of times, you know, people feel very entitled in the valley. So if certain ridiculous things are not mad Mel is laughing now. Like, I don't know, like we had this ridiculous story about certain brand of water was in shortage and all of the developers was hash tagging and twittering on Twitter about the missing water. So things like, you know, that go a little bit too extreme for our taste. But I think was Airwallex. In specific, we have nine global offices. So in the very beginning, we did have a lot of cultural difference, especially with our China team and Australian team, you know, like people working different hours, people are all about work life balance, and the others is like I'm leaving the office. But I think at the end of the day, the culture of your company is how your founders sort of lead by example, because we have four co founders. So it starts from the founders starts from your senior management team, and then it takes time, but your culture can actually change over the time as well because you become a sort of like a bigger company than this You probably value a certain things a little bit differently than when you were like 100 people, you know, I used to have people telling me I Lucy can't have lunch with us anymore. I'm like, honey, I can't do that anymore because we have 400 people. So it's having the founders grow together with the company as well as the employees growing with the company over time that that's probably how you can shape the culture.
Well, that's a great place to end it. Thank the four of you for joining us and thank you for listening in. Enjoy the rest of your time here.