
Paddy Cosgrave: Our next guest is the chairman of the world's second largest smartphone manufacturer. In 2018 alone, Huawei sold a record $52 billion worth of products, including 200 million smartphones. But today, they're here to talk about what is potentially the most transformative technology of the next decade. As we stand at the precipice of a 5g driven world. We will explore the newest route on this information superhighway. Please put your hands together for the chairman of Huawei, Guo Ping.
Guo Ping: Thank you. I'm honored to be here with you all today. I I want to talk to you about why 5G represents a golden opportunity for our entire industry and particularly you, the developers. My topic 5G+X. We are create a smart new era. This X can be AI, big data, or VR AR among other technologies. As you all know, 5g deployment has just begun. AI applications for a range of industries are still in their infancy. I believe that in the future, 5G + X will create countless opportunities for entrepreneurs. In 1875, the Paris Nord train stations started the using electric lines. In 1879, a power plant in San Francisco started selling electric power. These were historical changes. Later in 20th century, electricity significantly increase the productivity in all industries. Humanity entered the electric age. Just as the edge began with electric lighting, 3g and 4g solved the problem of connecting people. 5g and the AI represents a tipping point for ICT technology. This technology will be furthered our pride in all industries. Like electric, electricity was over essemtially years ago. This makes ICT a key enabler for industry. Deep development. The rollout of 5g commercial networks is occurring more revolutionary than expected. As of now, fourty carriers in over 20 countries are using 5g networks commercially. We predict by the end of this year, we will see 60 commercial 5g networks. The new experience, delivered by 5g how being warm welcomed by consumers. Just take South Korea for example. 1 million users signed up for 5g during the first 69 days. When 4g was loaded, it took 150 days to amass that many users. The average 5g user consumes three times as much data as a 4g user. 5g can achieve speeds as high as 20 gigabits per second and the latency as low as one millisecond. It can support 1 million connections per square kilometer. 5G can ensure superior experience for the Internet of Things. You are familiar with cloud and the AI. 5g reduced the distance between devices and cloud, putting the computing power of the cloud right in your pocket. Now I'd like to share some case studies with you.
Guo Ping: Two weeks ago at a Huawei forum, the CEO of a Swiss carrier Sunrise, demonstrated these 5g use cases in their field 20 kilometers away. Three musicians play the Opera House YR in our forum venue, in other magician praying that the goods and a Chinese string instrument the archer high bandwidth and the ultra low latency of five Dee kept the musician in perfect time with each other. In the near future. People separated by long distance can communicate in real time over 5g networks. Users can feel as if they are sitting in the same room together. Located in lower than the sheer terrorists oil refinery hopes to improve the safety of its works workers and improve operation and maintenance efficiency with 5g patrol Roberts Canva Long day contracts and that quickly support all your leaks and the respond. This reduces the risk of working on side. Jury inspection. Smart 5g helmets can allow Junior engineers to talk in real time with outside experts. The experts can view the work on site on the archer HD video stream. This reduces the time it takes to complete a inspection from days. Two hours. Five gene price makes the inspection of the 160,000 kilometers of pipes easier than ever before. 5g and AI and not just the being used in intelligence And the factories. They are also use the for medical diagnosis and treatment.
Someone: Every day 11,000 children are born with visual impairments. Many of these kids will go undiagnosed for years, this will impact their entire life trajectory. And in some cases, even their life expectancy. It doesn't have to be this way. 70 to 80% of visual impairments are either preventable or curable if detected early enough. The problem is we are still using assessment tools that can't diagnose everyone, including children who can't speak or those who don't have complete control of their motor functions.
Someone: That's why we created track AI.
Someone: With track AI, were able to capture the smallest movements of the eye. Using TensorFlow, an open source machine learning platform, we're able to add identify patterns in these movements. These patterns can point to potential pathologies.
Someone: At Huawei we're constantly looking for ways that our technology can be used to help others. So when we understood what the dive team were doing, we just had to help. It's incredible to see how they using our technology to better the lives of children.
Someone: With the processing power of the Huawei p 30. Positions can use track AI to make assessments in real time, even offline. And with high AI, the developers are able to leverage this processing power in the ways that works best for them.
Someone: We believe that a local push do what's humanly possible and that it has the potential to enrich lives in ways that we're just now discovering.
Someone: Excited to keep evolving this technology with proud to enable those who use it to make the world better every day.
Guo Ping: We just look at the some typical 5g applications. 5g plus x is changing the way we're working the leaf. 5g is an upgrade to our communication infrastructure. And the AI provides us with more powerful computing engines. However, the applications and the software built on top of what generates to value. The Internet show us that app developers typically guided the lion's share of profits and their income increase most rapidly. This is a huge market was Chileans of US dollars. biggest winner will be our partners. For the past 30 years, Huawei has been working with carrier to create the foundation for the internet. So app and the software developers can fully unleash their potential. In the 5G+X era, we will continue to enable app developers and drive the entire industry forward. Specifically, we are focused on two areas, mobile devices and the cloud. to support these two areas. We have launched the Huawei developer program and the Shining Star Program. I'd like to now talk about the Huawei developers program tier one, open labs around the world and already have 1.3 million developers. Now we are starting to roll out our developer program 2.0. Over the next five years, we will invest the 1.5 billion US dollar as we expanded the program to 5 million developers. We have programs for universities and Institute's individuals, startups and the partners. For example, we provide the free AI boats and vouchers for cloud services change into enterprise developers and assigned European universities. We are working to make a development easier for all developers I had already checked a lot of attention, but the technology is complex. We are still facing a skill shortage. To have developers to use AI in positive ways. We have launched the model arts to make their work easier. When you say itself, to solve the problem of a development model at suppose automatic data enrichment, automatic data optimization, and the one click model changing among the features, simple report, we want developers to be free to focus on their code work. Huawei will take half of the complex computing problems Developers can just focus on designing self service logic and creating the best possible products. So far smartphones have had the biggest impact on our daily life. However, we will assume entered a fully connected the word for this Huawei has a long been determined to develop the next generation device ecosystem. Huawei has launched a 1+8+N all scenarios strategy, in which smartphone, connect all kinds of devices and offer all scenarios services.
Guo Ping: At home, users can switch seamlessly between your smartphone and large screens with a single touch in the car. Mobile phones apps can interface with the vehicle itself. The Next Generation device ecosystem will be about more than smartphones. We'd like to see developers jump and innovate their apps for integrated applications.
Guo Ping: Wireless smartphones, smart watches, and smart screens are very popular. To deliver better experience, we are opening up to most third party apps and services. This has allowed the Huawei mobile services ecosystem to develop Huawei also provide all kinds of service kits, enabling developers to quickly develop apps and the distributed them to Huawei devices in all scenarios. We have also allocate $1 billion to our Shining Star Program, which aims to motivate developers to innovate. With this program, we hope to add checked more high quality apps and to our HMS ecosystem. Tomorrow afternoon, we will provide more details at our Huawei development they event we hope to see you there.
Guo Ping: 5G+X is a new electricity, it will be the key enabler of the smart word. Huawei looks forward to working with industry developers and startups to create more 5G+X applications. We welcome you all to join us in creating the smart new era. Thank you.