
Someone: I don't think I ever dreamed that Toronto would be a destination where the kind of activity we see.
Someone: It's a very exciting time to be in Toronto. This is the single best time as an entrepreneur to be fundraising in this country, we have extraordinary talent here, we have a really strong economic advantage or a new company, you can't be an island, you have to build partners.
Someone: Yep. Next we have job today a hiring app that matches job seekers employers by location and other work criteria through its mobile messaging interface Polina Montano is the co founder and CO, CEO of job today, a serial entrepreneur, with a background in retail Paulina has a history of implementing her ideas and running her own businesses. Let's get pulling out.
Someone: Is it gonna be on the audio. It's not going to be broadcast to the room. Oh, ok ok ok
Someone: so I'll just read that, while waiting for that camera.
Someone: Next we have job today, a hiring app that matches job seekers and employers by location and other work criteria through its mobile messaging platform Polina Montano is the co founder and CEO of job today, a serial entrepreneur, with a background in retail Polina has a history of implementing her ideas and running her own businesses. Let's get Polina out.
Someone: Good night.
Someone: Please welcome to the stage co host of collision and managing director of TechStars Toronto, Sonia Sharma.
Someone: Alright.
Someone: Good morning.
Someone: Welcome to the final day of what's been just an incredible web summit. My name is Sunil Sharma, I'm the managing director of TechStars Toronto and the co host of collision. So before we begin today's main content here on center stage, I'd like to introduce you to an incredible group of companies who all have huge huge plans for the future. Now, each morning here on center stage we've been showcasing the very best and brightest seed companies that have been attending web summit companies that we think will be the startups that everyone will be talking about from 2022 beyond these companies have worked with the world's best startup investors and that's essentially what led them to this stage. Later this afternoon will be showcasing an incredible group of growth. caliber startup companies, and that'll be after lunch today here on stage. Their stories and more importantly the ideas behind these companies are just fantastic. And these ideas have given these founders huge potential to be success all around the world. So let me introduce you to this morning's very first startup. The first company today is asked Porter, an AI messaging platform that optimizes property and facilities management, reducing admin and the cost of management, whilst improving customer satisfaction. So speaking today is the chief Commercial Officer Curran McKay, let's please give him a very warm welcome.
Someone: Between the turn of the millennium and 2030. It is predicted that more people will move to cities, than the entire previous urbanization of humanity combined.
Someone: At the same time the world's most valuable asset class isn't oil. It isn't even data. It's real estates. And so the way that we manage those buildings efficiently to increase yields and profits and effectively to better serve the tenants and commercial businesses that occupy them is crucial to sustaining that growth in urbanization.
Someone: My name is Curran McKay, I'm the co founder and chief Commercial Officer at ask Porter, and I'm going to show you how we make managing spaces, simple property management is broken it relies in a large number of disparate legacy systems is highly human resource intensive and as a low margin business. If you take a typical letting agent on the high street in the UK, they get paid a fixed fee, usually a percentage of the rent from managing the property, and any additional work from chasing rental arrears to unblocking toilets doesn't offer them any more money. So we figured there had to be a better way. A way that provided a 24 seven concierge to the resident was providing a digital assistant to the property manager.
Someone: I'd like to introduce you to Porter, our digital property manager.
Someone: You can get in touch with Porter, any way you like. Text voice. What's up, email, you can ask Porter when your renters do, or let them know that your boiler is broken. You can tell Porter that your door is stuck or that it's jammed or that you can't get in or you've lost your keys and he will understand and take action.
Someone: for the property managers, based on those conversations we automate the mundane repetitive low value tasks and property management, allowing them to focus on service and winning new business.
Someone: We're backed by some incredible investors, but particularly proud to be the first international investment from Google asst investments. And we're in beta with some of Europe's leading real estate companies, particularly Warrick estates which has over 40,000 apartments from Edinburgh to Exeter. And this is a global markets across residential commercial and new innovations like short stay. It's worth over 72 billion.
Someone: And we have the team to back it across prop tech AI, machine learning, and an incredible board.
Someone: We have the opportunity to fundamentally change the way that any tenant, or any business in any space in any place engages with their property, so that we can continue and sustain that growth in urbanization, for all. Thank you,
Someone: brilliant job Curran the pride of Northern Ireland. So next up we have Daniela spacious, who is a medical doctor, and the CEO of tonic app, who believes that healthcare can be made simpler and diagnose and treat patients by aggregating in a single mobile platform, the very best professional resources available. Please welcome Daniela to the stage.
Someone: I know we have lots of entrepreneurs tech people venture capitalists in the room. Let me tell you what tonic app is tonic app is healthcare tonic app is mobile tonic app is b2c tonic app is b2b tonic app is data.
Someone: I know, it really sounds insane right. But we are pulling it in a world where digital content, and tools are dispersed throughout the web, we are helping medical doctors diagnose and treat their patients by aggregating in a single mobile platform, the best professional resources tonic app is where medical doctors can find, everyone and everything they need. And it's actually where all other fk players can find medical doctors.
Someone: So meets tonic app tonic app has specialized search engines for guidelines codes of reimbursement medical Congress's, it has clinical algorithms. It has diagnostic and treatment decision trees. It has news jobs and more tonic app is even a medical device, a C Mark medical device.
Someone: We have had month on month retention rates above 50% over the past six months, we already have 30% of all medical doctors in Portugal. More than half of our family doctors, and we just closed October growing at 88% in Spain.
Someone: We've collected so far more than 97,000 data points this year. Actions per user more than double, and we believe our real world medical data can actually change and influence elf care.
Someone: And because we understand that when medic great medical content and tools already exists. We need not to invent them. That's why we partner with the largest healthcare companies to bring the best professional resources to medical doctors.
Someone: And this is tonic app team. We were just eight the summer, we are now 12, and we're growing really really fast.
Someone: So tonic app, making healthcare simpler, and definitely happier. Thank you.
Someone: Great job Daniela.
Someone: I'm now going to introduce faster than light, their CEO, Alyssa Shevinsky is a cyber security expert and helped launch several successful companies, including everyday health and brave. She's now building the future of testing code. So let's get Alyssa out on stage to tell us more.
Someone: Hi everyone, my name is Alyssa, and I'm CEO at faster than light.
Someone: We're building the future of testing tools.
Someone: Every time we get in the center here. Every time a fortune 1000 ships or product update. They need to run an eight to 10 hour test.
Someone: One company built a faster solution in house. This is remarkable enough that wired wrote about it.
Someone: And that's great for Facebook. But what about every other company, trying to stay competitive.
Someone: We built Bug Catcher to solve our own frustrations, running security tests on large code bases.
Someone: We built unique proprietary deep technology.
Someone: Older testing scans code, one file at a time.
Someone: We can scan up to 40,000 files. At the same time, by running packages, plus files inside Docker containers. Inside AWS. And it's actually a lot more complicated than it sounds our CTO is very, very good. We are exactly the right team to bring this to market. Fred Thomas previously built and sold Venetia $415 million to Anne docs, protecting 200 million credit cards, while he was there. And we've all worked together in the past, we've all known each other since 2012.
Someone: Our go to market is not only top down sales, but also developer evangelism. If you'll be in London next week. You can see me keynote at DEF CON.
Someone: We've also launched a code quality meetup. And we have a Kuo quality conference coming soon. Also in London.
Someone: And we're back by leading VCs and accelerators shout out to Ayman at TechStars London.
Someone: We're making it fast to test code. We're making it cool to test code. You didn't laugh.
Someone: That's okay we know it's already called a test code.
Someone: And we're looking for design partners for pilots in 2020. You can find me on LinkedIn. Thank you.
Someone: Yeah. Great job. It is, it is cool to test code.
Someone: Capture ticket technologies is a technology and social media company who are racing the boundary between real time communication and artificial intelligence. So today co founder and CEO, Alexey Moiseenkov will tell us their story. Please welcome Alyssa to the stage.
Someone: Morning Lisbon, love to see you all here. And so basically this is capture. And I will tell you what we are doing is like, pretty simple thing. We are doing, social, and we are doing, you call it online chats. I know that is not so exciting. But I will tell you.
Someone: So we are here.
Someone: We are the web summit and this is the perfect place for communities like investors learners change makers, digital leaders, and we want to create a place for these kind of groups for this kind of people. And it's really, really exciting for us to build this kind of tool, and this is, I think, an app.
Someone: And we know the context is empowering our communications, anytime during your day. When you're at walk. When you're talking with your friends. Anytime. And that's why we see a lot of potential to use data from your phone to empower communications and the capture is the place for any community for you, for your friends for NGOs, and what we're doing. We offer you salmon any mice community show. So your identity is under your control. You can share, who you are or not share.
Someone: You can do anything you can create a group chat, you can create some sort of broadcasting to on our app, and Justin o' Dell people were thinking about different things, and all this stuff is empowered by camera location and events. It's like a triggers.
Someone: And also I should mention that we do not collect your data, and never store your personal information our service.
Someone: And we are growing. We're growing from the launch mid summer, and this is like small number of like 5% girls. Each week, people spending more than six minutes in our app, and writing more than 20 daily messages.
Someone: Today, we are launching our Android and Ben version, and this is like a full suite of platforms to support, and you can download capture right now. on this address. Thank you.
Someone: Thank you, Alexey
Someone: macro meta helps developers create global applications with a distributed database using familiar tools and frameworks, you can build and run apps on a network of edge data centers closer to your end users, speaking today is CEO and President Chetan Venkatesh
Someone: hello hello hello let's Ben. How are you, my name is Chetan Venkatesh I'm the co founder and CEO of a company called macro meta macro meta is building a new kind of a cloud, an edge cloud. The cloud of today, while it's very cool and important is actually already obsolete. So Macromedia is creating a new kind of a highly distributed computing cloud to make data processing instant, and quick and cheap.
Someone: So the problem with the cloud is, it's too far, and too slow for most modern data intensive applications that are coming on the scene. Every time somebody uses your mobile application your game, or your IoT device that data has to go halfway around the world to get processed and this creates all kinds of complex problems, and vice a lot of money. My customers are solving billion dollar problems in IoT, and healthcare in FinTech in cyber security, using our platform. So let me tell you a little more about that. Macro meta has stitched together. 175 data centers around the world into one giant cloud. A small startup like ours that just only raised $3 million. So far, already is the biggest cloud provider in the world. And on top of this cloud. Companies developers are building new types of applications where latency data processing needs to be very very instant. And for those types of applications Macromedia is about 25 times faster and 90% cheaper than using the public cloud.
Someone: We provide a full stack of capabilities in the cloud today when you build an app, it asks you, which region, your back end needs to be with macro meta. The whole world is your back end, we automatically Place your data, your application logic and run it closer to wherever your end users are their devices are, and that includes a modern database, a real time low latency stream processing engine and functions and containers as a service.
Someone: So if you want to do this. There are two ways to go about doing it the easy way or the hard way, the hard way is prepared to fork out about four to $5 million, and spent three years hiring the smartest people in the world to try and put this together. I already did that. And what Michelman has done is done a very complex problem into a simple set of API's that any developer can express an application in in hours and days. So we have customers more than 100 today. And we're spending more than a million dollars with us every quarter, solving really hard problems that they couldn't solve with the cloud in the past.
Someone: Go check out www dot Macromedia dot CEO and learn about the edge and come and join me in the edge revolution. Thanks very much, everyone.
Someone: So next up, I will introduce Dave McGibbon the co founder of Passbase. Passbase allows developers, with just a few lines of code to confidently onboard new users and verify their true identity within the natural signup flow. so please put your hands together for Dave.
Someone: Hi there. Most of you are going to leave this conference today, and call a complete stranger on the internet to drive you to the airport. Still more of you slept to complete strangers apartment last night before coming to this conference. We live in a world today, where the assumption is that you can trust people that you've met online.
Someone: Now, this is because we built the technologies to allow you to connect your physical persona, to your digital self. This is the world of authentication. The problem is, this term technologies is come with a trade off.
Someone: And that trade off is, the more personal data you have about someone, the more confident you can be in their identity.
Someone: However, at Passbase, we believe that this trade off is not actually necessary.
Someone: With our SDK is, you can authenticate an individual to a high degree of certainty, with a quick selfie, and scan of an identity document what this gives you, as a business is a high degree of assurance in the individual who's onboarding to your platform.
Someone: Now, what you receive as a business is the information you actually you need to complete your business, along with evidence that the authentication has been completed bas reducing the attack surface on all of your individuals you've identified personal information.
Someone: Not only are the biometrics that we collect available for onboarding. They're also available to re authenticate individuals in future allow you to do things such as secure transactions or help with account recovery.
Someone: Now, all of this is available to you and your developers, with just simple code snippets across any major computing platform.
Someone: And this is done in such a way where you self service onboarding simple sass pricing fully customizable, and you can lean on our NIST certified biometric technologies in order to do all of this.
Someone: We've built out an amazing team of both investors and employees to go after this massive set of problems, and we're excited today to say that we were able to authenticate 10s of thousands of individuals on our partners behalf. Only three months after our soft launch.
Someone: So, if you're a business where identity and privacy fundamentally matter to you, head over to passbase.com. Or send your developer, and we're excited to partner with you to help you take care of this problem and ensure that you we respect the privacy of all of our users and all individuals. Thank you.
Someone: Thank you, Dave.
Someone: Our next company is called hundred, hundred is a direct to consumer digital health company providing personalized high quality, vitamins, plus nutrition expert consultation. So here to tell hundred story today is their founder and CEO Dario Galbiati Alborghetti. Please give him a welcome.
Someone: How many of you have taken supplements before, raise your hands.
Someone: supplements, exactly supplements is a is a great industry growing really strong online, being the fastest growing channel. Sadly nowadays. The experience is still quite broken. This is what you see when you walk into a store a lot of different brands with different dosages making really hard to know what to buy. And if you're taking medication. You should also be very mindful of certain interaction that might arise. Online is also subject to Constance candles also major ecommerce platforms, making really hard to know who to trust.
Someone: That's why we set on the quest to fix the experience of our supplements that taken, which is correctly, that can have a tremendous positive impact on many health areas of your life. We start with an online questionnaire assessing both lifestyle and dietary habits of a person, taking into consideration also the man's regimen, if any, and especially what is the health goal that the customer want to achieve. Within provide a recommendation of scientific evidence based supplements broadly started like vitamins minerals probiotics, which eventually customers can buy, and receive at home manfully already in pre patch daily sachets, but we want to take this a step farther and guiding the customer all the way through digitizing the same experience that nutritionist will provide. That's why when a customer buys our supplements, they get paired with one of our nutritionist, which they always can reach out by a chat, in case they have any questions. They can also log in into the main account, reviewing the recommendation and receiving, health tips on how to best assimilate the supplements they got recommended. And if they start to take medication, they can reach out to us. We're going to add the plan accordingly. Last but not least, our lifestyle is constantly evolving. And that's why we provide quarterly reassessment to keep the plan always up to date. We're now active both in Europe and US. We screen over half a million people. And today here the web summit, we want to announce the closing of our seed round with inside Venture Partners. Thank you very much.
Someone: Thank you. Dario.
Someone: Now we have Mariano Kostelec, the co founder and CEO of student finance and educational technology company focused on helping partner schools and universities financing students education through income share agreements, or I essays, to help increase educational opportunity, and to empower people to just access high impact careers. please welcome Mariano.
Someone: I have some bad news, and also some good news for you.
Someone: With the bad news is that we will lose 75 million jobs. Do you do automation. This is more than the population of France, and Germany combined. Now the good news is that for every one of these jobs to new ones are being created in areas such as data science artificial intelligence and cybersecurity.
Someone: The issue is that we don't have the skills for these jobs yet. And this is already becoming a big problem, which we call the skills gap.
Someone: Now this is where student finance comes in, we assess the skills that society needs and make education affordable and accessible through income share agreements. Let's see how this works.
Someone: This is Steve. He's 32, and he was working at Amazon as a Delivery Manager. And the last year. Since then, a drone is doing his job. He's got a family to support as well.
Someone: So how can we help Steve, get back into the job market. He clearly needs to do something different. So he decides to take a data science course. And the good thing is that he doesn't need to pay anything upfront, because student finance looks at his future potential and pays for it. He doesn't need to risk his own family.
Someone: As soon as he completes the program, Steve goes out there, and gets free job offers from leading technology companies, he picks one of the offers, he meets his new team. And only then he starts paying a percentage of his salary. This is the value of the income share agreement. So why are we, investing in people's education and risking never seen the money back again.
Someone: Well, our predictive model, creates an intelligence layer between talent, education and employment to maximize employment outcomes and bring transparency to the market. So when you go through student finance, you don't only get the location for free. You also have a job waiting for you.
Someone: We are proud to announce now that we've already supported Steve, and also Rebecca and Paton, and many more. We are backed by some incredible investors who believe in our mission. So come and join us at student finance.com. Thank you.
Someone: Thank you Mariano.
Someone: Next up, we have SafetyWing, who build a global safety net for online freelancers. SafetyWing is currently offering a travel medical insurance for digital nomads speaking for SafetyWing today is co founder and CTO, Sarah Sandnes.
Someone: Hey everyone, I'm going to talk about how remote work will change the world, and why we need a global social safety net remote work, simply means not having to go to an office. Whether you're a freelancer, or an employee. All you really need is a computer, and an internet connection, remote work is already big, but it will become huge. The Economist corporate a number of 1 billion remote workers by 2035.
Someone: SafetyWing it's fully remote. We gather our core team four times a year, but in everyday life. We're spread across the globe, our full team of 25 are from 15 different countries, and most of us, no longer live in the country we're from.
Someone: While some remote workers will stay in their home country. Others will shop around for their dream city using tools like Nomad lyst to find their perfect city match. They will bring their own jobs and are just there to live and spend money. I predict a future where cities and countries will compete to get these workers to come live there.
Someone: Thanks to the internet and remote work. The world is taking huge steps towards equal opportunity. Except when it comes to welfare.
Someone: The new workforce falls between the cracks of the existing national systems. This is why we need a global social safety nets. A good social safety net, like the one we have in Norway where I'm originally from consists of health insurance. Disability Insurance pension savings and income protection. So this is what we're making just for the whole world.
Someone: We have proven that we can create a global innovative insurance product that people actually want our first product has grown 30% the month since we launched a year and a half ago. We've just started signing up customers for our second product, a global health insurance for remote teams where companies who have employees all over the world have a one stop shop to buy all of them health insurance. In 20, we will launch the world's first global savings and pensions product.
Someone: We will then bundle, our products into one global social safety net.
Someone: As a membership, a global social safety net. It's a fundamental part of the global future of work. Someone has to build this. And that's someone. It's us at SafetyWing. Thank you.
Someone: Thank you, Sairah. It's an enormous vision.
Someone: Next up, we have on the community first brand reshaping the way women experience their menstrual cycles, with a range of organic products, including the UK its first pro period CBD oil and multi platform content on provides women with the tools data and support they need to manage their entire cycles. So please welcome to the stage cofounders Leah and Nikki.
Someone: Every single person in this room is the result of a uterus, that at some point plaid meet Jess. Her cramps had hard and she is bloody exhausted before she knows it she's bleeding craving carbs and sugar. Five days later her period finally stops. Next up, she's feisty and her skin is glowing, but she's burning way more energy than her body knows what to do with suddenly she's drained and bloated, to the extent she's going to dress those literally overnight mood swings hit hard and within days her skin has turned to shit. She looks like a teenager on a fast food diet. And again, her period is about two stars. This isn't a one off but happens on repeat 12 times a year for 45 years. That's 540 cycles, the industry, and every single one of our competitors caters to the 28 day cycle, by providing women with the products for the five days they bleed, and that's it. And these products, their appetite sweets, filled with toxins and take longer to biodegrade than the lifetime of the person who use them with the global market for personal care MBC estimated at 1 trillion US dollars. What about the rest of a woman's cycle. And, on, on exists to reshape the way that women experience their entire cycle. We started by providing organic period products on a custom subscription. Then came CBD, the world's first pro period CBD oil and a hormone balancing injectable CBD supplement. Next up, products for the full 28 day cycle. We're building a community focused platform with a serious, no bullshit approach to periods and cycle management on is going to be the global go to destination for the products and hyper personalized support that women deserve for their entire cycle and top of this, we're building the first community, centered around cycles. Before we launched a male friend better that we would never be able to create a community around periods. He lost his money, even in these early stages, we see over a third of our customers post pictures of their tampons online. And our next six months of customer events, they have sold out. We just completed the TechStars accelerator program and have been prepping to launch in retail, next week, all the while we've been increasing our b2b partners stocking on in bathrooms across the globe. but most importantly, we think worth has smashed obesity targets events referrals ambassadors and a shitload of press has meant that over 75% of our b2c subscriptions, have been acquired offline. So, the two days of crazy that I personally turn each and every month for my hormonal acne that decides to show up every four weeks for your friend who's lost control of her cycle for your daughter, who's just as it her period for you to get that time of the month. We're here for women, Every time of the month. Thank you.
Someone: Amazing.
Someone: OK, so the final breakout startup of the morning is verbs. Verbs instantly tasks emails or messages teams using voice verbs makes it easy to be more productive. While working from your mobile. So let's hear it for the last speaker of the morning, the founder and CEO of verbs, Hugh Geiger.
Someone: Hello everyone. My name is Hugh Geiger, I'm the CEO of Forbes.
Someone: I'll follow up with you when I get back to the office. I bet we've all said something like that this week, there's a good chance that your inbox is blowing up your slack and WhatsApp, getting out of hand. And you're already promising yourself, you'll catch up on the plane.
Someone: We more connected to our work than ever before. There's more email. There's more chat. And there are thousands of productivity apps that promise to keep us organized. But the moment we step away from our desk. We fall behind.
Someone: The problem is that we're texting, like it's 1837. Incredibly, when we text today. Most of us are actually slower than a telegram operator. So, While your work is accelerating, your ability to capture and share information is not.
Someone: And this is not just a problem for business leaders and entrepreneurs like you. 80% of the global workforce is mobile.
Someone: That's 2.7 billion workers, without regular access to a PC.
Someone: At Verbz Labs we're developing voice first work automation software that's designed to make everyone more productive.
Someone: To use it, I just take out my phone and say, Hey Matt, I need a new proposal for Napa, can you update the pricing and send it over by Tuesday.
Someone: It is not working.
Someone: What that does is it tasks Matt, and it starts a workflow for us both. It's fast, it's flexible and it turns natural conversation into structured work.
Someone: I can also drop documents, share meeting summaries and chat with my team across multiple platforms, all with my voice.
Someone: Right now, we're targeting business leaders and entrepreneurs like you. But in future will develop workflows for healthcare retail sales and industrial workplaces. Our mission adverbs is to transform how we all work for mobile.
Someone: If you're excited about the future of enterprise voice, and would like to help us build it, we're hiring right here in Lisbon. So send us an email.
Someone: We're also automate. If you'd like to join hundreds of executives from many of the world's top companies already using verbs and saving time, you can sign up online, we're giving preferred access to web summit attendees.
Someone: So remember, you'll get more done with verbs. Thank you.
Someone: Thank you. Okay, so that concludes this morning's session on breakout startups. Shortly, we will start the opening of this morning's content in roughly 30 minutes so you're welcome to hang tight, or make your way around any of these incredible venues. See you soon.
Someone: Alyssa funny, my friend.
Someone: Toronto had firmly arrived on the world taxing the fourth largest tech market in all of North America and what we're doing in Canada is making sure that there is room for everyone to succeed.
Someone: Toronto is having a moment we are building an ecosystem in Silicon Valley's been around for 50 plus years so this isn't going to happen overnight. I believe the culture of Silicon Valley drover others, to a business model that is incredibly destructive.
Someone: Let's not just sleep walk into a world where technology authoritarianism governs our choices. Technology is all around us, we are constantly being surveilled
Someone: responsible data us is one of the biggest social issues of our time. we have to balance the privacy responsibility.
Someone: Technologies great. It's about people. We all come together as a people. The world looking right in front of us. We don't succeed. Together, we're all going to fail separately.
Someone: I don't think I ever dreamed that Toronto, would be a destination point for the kind of activity we see.
Someone: It's a very exciting time to be in Toronto. This is the single best time as an entrepreneur to be fundraising in this country, we have extraordinary talent here, we have a really strong economic advantage or a new company, you can't be an island, you have to build partnerships.
Someone: Like collision brings opportunity. Collision belongs in very fortunate to be part of this journey. That's like collision are very important in the tech community because they enabled the movement of ideas to Bruce and diversity of different talent into the room were very collaborative, they're very inclusive partners and our customers are here, we have to be here.
Someone: I will definitely be back next year.
Someone: It's very important for conferences like this to exist.
Someone: They enable the movement of ideas, the value of the conference was beyond just the week.
Someone: You got to get your message out to so many people.
Someone: If I had to boil down collision to one word, it would be inspiring. They're very collaborative very inclusive. It brings in diversity of different talent into the room. The pitch competition was pretty amazing, which was pretty incredible. There's a lot of hype behind it. I have had a number of people contact me after that pitch were really interested in my company collision is a really exciting event it's really a very clear statement about the position for Toronto.
Someone: Toronto and collision are handed.
Someone: It to see an ocean.
Someone: Please take your seats, the stage will open in five minutes.
Someone: Please welcome to the stage co host of collision and managing director of TechStars Toronto, Sonia Sharma
Someone: morning with Ben.
Someone: Welcome to the third and final day of web summit 2019. My name is Sunil Sharma, I am a proud Canadian and I work as the managing partner of TechStars Toronto. I've also have the great privilege of serving as the co host of the collision conference and would like to welcome all of you to come to Toronto to keep this web spirit web summit spirit alive, beginning in June 2020. It's been an amazing experience for me personally here at web summit meeting so many incredible startups and entrepreneurs from literally around the world coming to web summit and listening to so many great stories, gives me such a feeling of optimism for the future of the world. As I it's clear that entrepreneurs are going to define our future.
Someone: I've been so fortunate to connect with many of my own colleagues. We've had a great opportunity to have dinners and drinks in some of the nicest spots in Lisbon over the past few days and night. And today on center stage. It will be the place to be over the course of the day in person, and certainly online around the world. We have phenomenal speakers and companies represented on this stage, including stock x branch, Brex, eToro, Andela, Revolut, plaid many many more investors like lightspeed ventures, new view capital journalists from incredible publications The New York Times, Reuters TechCrunch BuzzFeed will also have the pitch finals on this stage beginning at 12:30pm followed later by an amazing music panel, featuring Jillionaire and Jon Michelle Jarre Ray, and the perspective from the White House itself with President Trump's top technology advisor, and the CTO of the United States, Michael Kratsios, you will not want to miss that. And our closing ceremonies will be with the president of Portugal, and that will conclude, an incredible web summit 2019. Now our first panel.
Someone: Sir Martin Sorrell prominent career on Madison Avenue started in 1985, when he bought a controlling stake for $675,000 in a company that manufactured wire and plastic products, called WPP by 2018, he had built WPP into a colossal marketing services firm with a market value of $20 billion 175,000 employees and 3000 offices in 112 countries around the world. WPP has become synonymous with the best in advertising. Now, a year since leaving WPP he has focused on a new venture asked for capital and in so doing he plans to build the next great ad Empire. So in conversation with Charlie Warzel of The New York Times, please welcome to the stage, sir Martin Sorrell.
Someone: Morning.
Someone: Does anybody awake out there.
Someone: There's one wave, one wave, right, far away Charlie, how you doing this morning, I'm doing well I just flew in last night so I might be a bit groggy. Okay, Well, let's just get right into it and you you recently left the legacy ad world and you build something new. Well the actually the world, the world I left was, there was a bit of digital there we've managed to, to make WPP 40% I think was 40% Digital so it wasn't digital, but you build something new, something nimble, something.
Someone: Can upstarts unseat all the giants and the next five years. Remember the biblical parable or story about David and Goliath, you have to read me. Well, the more modern ones, sort of motor torpedo boats and aircraft carriers I'm digital, the digital revolution and transformation is about brain rather than brawn.
Someone: And you know if you think about it from a digital, our model is around is built around. We call it the Holy Trinity model but first party data driving digital content and programmatic, so it's at scale.
Someone: When you buy media online you don't buy volume, you're buying media in a nanosecond, and therefore brain and agility is far more important then scale you know I I've said in the context of the Disney picture is probably one of the biggest legacy. And to some extent digital pictures that went on recently, I've said, you should short, the, the stock of the agency or agencies that win it. And the reason is that traditional media is still bought by procurement, or by marketing departments, on the basis of volume so it is said that in the case of Disney Disney asked the, the competing agencies for inflation guarantees pricing guarantees, and there was even some scurrilous talk in the trade press they might have asked for share shift, which is gets into some very murky ground but let's put that one to the one side for a minute. What it is is it's a highly targeted priced contract negotiation. And I think we're average Lee intelligent arrest for, or I assume we are, I think we're actually a bit better than that but I'd rather push on an open door. I was in New York yesterday listening to some rather smug and complacent. Traditional agency CEOs talking about their business. And, you know, they don't see the difference between digital, and an analog, there is a massive difference let's look at the US market in the first six months of this year, advertising and marketing services was up by 6.3% traditional was down by 3.3 and digital was up by 20. So we want to push on an open door. And we have four principles were purely digital I don't attach anything traditional, we have that holy trinity model of data first party data driving content and programmatic faster, better, cheaper bit glib. But really, fundamentally, it really resonates with CMOS and CEOs and lastly a unitary structure no one else. Everybody at S for has got two to two objectives. One is to build a new era. New Age model. And the second is to disintermediate disrupt coming back to your question. The David versus Goliath and I think in this new world that David can win. So, let's go to the the better, faster, cheaper, it makes sense if you spend any time in the digital world. If you get your ads off of Instagram you know you see that two three seconds, yeah version you see all that is better, faster, cheaper, sustainable in terms of the quality of what you're producing of.
Someone: It just feels like there's a churn that happens in this world A world that just drives everything down and people are working frantically to deliver the smaller things for less and it's just, it's it's filler. So nature of the revolution that's that's taking place. It sounds very glib but we've just challenged media months with a Silicon Valley agency. The biggest Silicon Valley agency forward, and they put it much more elegant they talk about speed quality and value which is a much better way of putting it. But let's examine it each of you know faster is about agility, which in a, in a digital world is key, if ever, this is not an exaggeration. Every CEO cmo CIO CTO CFO we talked to, if, if I asked my favorite question now what keeps you up at night when you wake up in the morning. That's what worries you. That's my favorite question, they say, lack of speed, lack of agility. So, nimbleness agility is absolutely key. That's one thing. Better means understanding the digital ecosystem we have 70,000 people here who are focused on an ecosystem which is dominated, in my view by 14 or so companies, maybe you can expand it with its Google, Facebook Amazon Tencent Alibaba Apple, Microsoft, Adobe sales force.
Someone: Those are the you know the Oracle deck Lee, IBM SAP Baidu bite dogs, maybe you add snap and Twitter in but it's a defined set of companies that we have to know intricately and can advise our clients agnostic Lee about where they spend their money, how they invest money, and then cheaper is about efficiency Zed BB Anna, we have a session with Fernando Machado is soon. In an hour or so after this, who runs Burger King 3g ohne company, you know the epitome of said BB zero based budgeting. After Lehman. That was the, the way forward. A discredited model to some extent. But efficiency is, to your point is still absolutely key so those three things, agility faster, better understanding the digital ecosystem and being as efficient as possible in a low growth world where there's no inflation, and where pricing power has evaporated. And therefore there's a focus on cost critically important. I have to ask you now what keeps you up at night. Well, I'm, you know, we're now, we're a year into this we have a market cap of $1.1 billion. So we've gone from zero actually from 2 million pounds a year ago to $1.1 billion. We have on a pro forma basis revenues of about 350 million dollars. We have 2000 people just under 2000 people in 26 countries. We have a great client list dominated by the tech brands by Google by Facebook by Amazon by Uber by service now by so phi. And then in the package good space you know Proctor ness ley mom dollars Coca Cola, Mark bear, that's not keeping more green boots and things but they, the issue for us. You know, we've made inroads, we've got clients to experiment with the model, our issue is about conversion at scale.
Someone: And that is the critical so we have to demonstrate that we can do what we do at scale, because we know you know we are David, we're not Goliath. Right. And there is still a feeling, you know, in legacy companies, and I ran a legacy or tried to run a legacy company for 30 ideas, and you make an unlisted cut this is a really, I think, important point listed companies that are uncontrolled i mean you know as a member of the, the fourth estate, you know, the criticism that there is of control companies I have a controlling share s for.
Someone: And that comes under you know that sometimes criticized in the listed sector, I think that is critically critical because uncontrolled listed companies, the CEO last usually about five years. And then the route replaced or whatever, for whatever reason, they don't have the time to take the long term view. If you're in control. You will make short term decisions, which might be damaging to the business in terms of write offs and Olga and record, but you know if you're if you don't control the company institutions are focused on the short term, your natural inclination because you've only got five years is to focus on the short term so you make short term decisions. You don't look to the long term, so the only structures, I think that work. I controlled listed companies. The much criticize Zuckerberg face I was just gonna say Larry, how do you feel about that long term strategy well as long as you don't have a lunatic and control in control. You're okay I'm a lunatic. But I really do think that that those people who control the companies, by and large, make long term decisions which are in the interests of all stakeholders, you know just abstracting I mean it from the point. You know, we get involved in all these SG conversations they become very complex they become very academic, to my mind, it is extremely simple. Purpose is served by long term decision making. If you make decisions in the interests of the company in the long term. You will look after every stakeholder, there is absolutely no conflict with paying people more and long term success of a business. There is absolutely no conflict in bending to the wishes of the environmental lobby, or any stakeholder government suppliers, whatever it is, if you're interested in long term brand building. If you all you're interested in is making the maximum amount of money in the shortest period of time, there is a conflict. So, john Brown said this many many years ago Stanford Business School will actually in 1997. He said if you're in the business of long term brand building you will do good. Doing good is good business in the long term. We were met talking about David's and Goliath. Yeah, and we just glanced over the big tech companies, you now, I mean you've, you've put a stake in Silicon Valley. Recently, I mean, how do you find the tech backlash right now and this, this idea I mean I think you've called Google and Facebook frenemies before. Well I yeah it was Maya mentioned it was a very bright young woman Laurin Reese who worked with me at WPP and she was a one of our fellows at WPV she went to HBS. And I remember just before the very first, I was doing your job at can at the can debate, or Nikesh Aurora and number of people from Microsoft and, and whatever and she said to me you know just think about these people's frenemies in it, and and I've had a demo scene conversion, in the sense that you know since I've been away from WPP I see it more as a partnership with that ecosystem of 14 companies. And I see us, working with them to ensure in a totally transparent way and this is really important point too, because the AMA inquiry you know the key to ubiquity inquiry. I think was more about perception than reality. But there is still a lack of trust between the clients, and the big agency holding companies, and so transparency, not just the perception of transparency, but the reality of transparency is absolutely critical. And that's why I think working with the tech companies. And, and getting them to understand the under the needs of the clients and the worries of the clients and vice versa, is critically important. So we're sort of Reese resellers for all these companies. I'm agnostic about them. If one rises or falls, that's fine because we we shift clients spending to where that where the maximum returns come do you think that they have that same long term interest like is there long term view in line. Well I think so I think the big issue, you know, the real issue is this, when Apple and Microsoft and Amazon hit $1 trillion.
Someone: That was a massive signal to you and the fourth estate, and journalists, etc. to focus on this concentration of power. I call the top seven companies or Google, Facebook, Amazon Tencent Alibaba Apple, Microsoft. The Seven Sisters. And the reason I call them the Seven Sisters is to draw attention to the analogy to the energy industry in the early 20th century, they were broken up you know we saw with the baby bells and at&t. When you get concentrations of power and scale it you know with that power comes responsibility and, and I think to be absolutely fair you know Google have hired 10,000 people to monitor editorial content. Facebook have had 30,000 you see you see the impact on their margins and a reduction in margins as they building costs. Because going back to that very first conference we did at Cannes with Nikesh and others. My first question to them was are you a media company or are you a technology company and there were four of them, and they all said no we're tech companies. Sure, and I believe that was probably about eight nine years ago, I believe, fundamentally, they are media companies, and they are responsible for the editorial content, just like you're responsible for what you write in the New York Times, they're responsible for what they flow through their pipes, they can't claim they are digital engineers just tightening the nuts on the digital pipes with their digital spanners. They are responsible for that content so they have to step up and take risks, and I think they are. The other thing is, Lloyd Blankfein of Goldman Sachs was asked when that $1 trillion sort of line was crossed. Who will be the first $2 trillion company, and he said he doubted whether they, I think this is right, he doubted whether there would be one, because no nation state would let a company get to 2 trillion goes 2 trillion if that's equal to GDP, the UK is two and a half, three. America is 20 trillion China's 12 Japan's five and a half and Germany and France and Italy and Spain all around two, two and a half, three and a half trillion. So you're getting talking about a pretty big country at 2 trillion. That power demands responsibility and I, to be fair, I think it's either you know they've been pushed into it, or they proactive, they're moving that way and I think they understand that. So we don't have too much time left but I want to talk a little bit about you are in an industry built on data being in the digital space, you're looking to acquire a lot of first party data to merge with this is really important. We share an f4 those two objectives. One is to build a new model, and two is to disintermediate Leo. And part of that is being a steward of that data. Yeah, and making sure that you build businesses and brands that help preserve privacy it's a huge time consuming and how, how are you working to protect the consumer Well, my view on it has always been that as long as you educate the consumer, not in a pretentious way or, you know, an over arching way but as long as you educate the consumer, or what he or she is signing up for it's fine. The problem. Now when was the last time that you. You didn't accept. When you went onto a website never have ever happened right very rarely. I think when there was a data breach on one site. I had, I hesitated but I went ahead and accept it. That's the point. You have to educate, we're now in an opt in world, I went with Randy Rothenberg to see to see the director general of competitiveness and Brussels about 10 years ago to argue for opt out. That's gone. You consumers have to opt in and when they opt in. We have to explain to them that the publishers the media right the online media publishers and the offline and ourselves, the agencies, the consultants have to explain to the consumer what they're letting themselves in for. And as long as we do that, I think so. And we have to do is simply not a 16 page agreement, right but even a lawyer couldn't understand. This has to be done simply an excuse, then I think it's fine. And then if if the consumer decides they want to sell their data you know the article in The Financial Times sorry to mention the Financial Times. Proud page, where a guy sitting on a London bus and by the time he gets to work, he's received one pound 39 which covers the cost of his bus fare for selling his data. And he knows what he's selling, he knows what he's going to be used for that I think is where we have to get we are that's the equilibrium that we have to establish sir Martin. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you all very much.
Someone: So 2018 has been a year of reckoning for tech leaders. There are many founders of important tech companies that are not great leaders. And then there are many that are. So what are the characteristics that make an excellent leader, one that people want to follow our next panel might ask themselves that question, each and every day, as they lead some of the biggest businesses in tech, through a new era of change. So to share their insight. We're now joined by Mike butcher of TechCrunch co founder and CEO of eToro Yoni Assia. The executive chairwoman of Mozilla Mitchell Baker and co founder president of Andela, Christina sass. And finally, the CEO of Walmart Sam's club.com, Jamie Iannone, please welcome them all
Someone: kind of in the way.
Someone: Good morning everybody. How's everybody feeling awake. Marvelous. I'm sure everyone got a lots of sleep last night. I certainly did. Mike butcher from TechCrunch again I hope you're all reading.
Someone: We're going to be talking about leadership now and I think that the interesting thing about this subject, is that you can, you can talk about it a lot you can you can talk about, you know, the general ideas but when you're actually in the situation of running your company and trying to infuse your team. It's a whole different ballgame. A lot of the time
Someone: to turn to first Mitchell from Mozilla, and a lot of people in tech companies think all you need to do is put in a foosball table scatter some beanbags around, and boom, you've got a fantastic company culture, and everyone thinks he was a leader. That's right, isn't it. That's how it works. That's how it is. That's it. Well it's been great. Thanks very much, everybody.
Someone: But it is more complicated than that isn't it.
Someone: Yeah, you know one thing I've noticed is more and more companies have a mission. More and more commercial companies have missions that are about making things better in the world and that's certainly I noticed that's in credibly motivating to employees, and I, that's something I think comes out of more values based organizations, than just you know Google organize the world's information you know Facebook's had a million of them but that's not fair, three or four of them, but but those tend to motivate a lot and so I think that's a new aspect of sort of corporate tech culture leadership pieces have a mission that your employees have an emotional attachment to, but the problem is is that we are slightly beyond that now, aren't we, I mean, the whole. Let's make the world a better place with sass enterprise software is has been satirized by shows like Silicon Valley now, and as much. It's got to be more than that, of course, Andela was a Oh sorry. Yeah, I'm not saying I'm a huge fan or I believe it or I think that the motivation of the employees is kind of lines up with the reality of the work of the organization. Yeah, just that as a leadership technique, even if you sat top to satirize it. I bet you'll find a lot of startups that have some meaning to what they're doing. So money, they hope. Anyway, meaning really helps you get your, your leadership message across the, would you agree that Andela, you've got an admission built in to some extent, haven't you allowing people to work remotely lifting economies in Africa.
Someone: Absolutely. I mean, I think. These days, purpose is really in crisis and it's become a currency, it's become a way that we recruit incredible talent.
Someone: So yes, we have, you know, are finding incredible talent across the continent of Africa and placing them in in large companies. And I find that we are able to recruit a lot of mission line people who are willing to work incredibly hard because somehow they aligned to retelling the story and excellence across the continent and really sharing that more broadly in a distributed fashion which as we know is certainly the future of engineering services. Yeah, I want to return to that subject. In a little while, about the future of work but I know eToro and Walmart, you guys have quite big Walmart rather big let's be honest, but I think the interesting thing is, both of you line up in some way because eToro is got very strong community amongst its users, doesn't it. Geez, and Walmart with Sam's Club. Huge shopping club, effectively, you in a way have to have your customers, as part of the project, as much as your staff, don't you, and it eToro do you consider your users your customers to be almost part of the company differently I think when employees join eToro. We talk a lot about the values of eToro, and what we say is we want the values of eToro to be the values, which both our customers value and get those values from the product experience as well as the day to day of every person in eToro and and a big part of that is the values of openness and people basically enjoying our product and people enjoying it work.
Someone: And would you concur yeah I like to call Sam's Club The $57 billion startup within Walmart, because that's what we try and think about ourselves and that's kind of how we recruit people is you know we we have a very kind of open seating arrangement engineer sitting next to the business people just like you'd have in a startup. And one of the great things is all of the feedback that comes from our associates in the field. So we have 100,000 Associates working at our clubs, they use all the new tools that we give them and they give us feedback right in those apps that goes, not only to the product team but also to the leadership of the organization. And so we're really in touch and I like to say all of the new things that we build for our associates and for our members, usually come from feedback that we have from the associates so it's kind of a gift to have that many people giving you giving you feedback on what you need to do, you have to be in listening mode a lot. Yes, absolutely. Would you say that people often talk about you know leadership in tech companies but the tech companies were about products, a lot of the time, aren't they. So to what extent and what's the dividing line between believing in you, as somebody who is leading the project or believing in the product Mitchell, obviously, Missouri, famously is a product, product organization. So, how much do you want them to really follow the product versus yourself well at Mozilla, because we have this nonprofit core people follow the mission. Yeah, so the, so that's the first thing, and and and we're remarkably consistent if you ask employees and volunteers, that's the first thing even even beyond product because they'll be hopefully many products over the years. So, in us the, the mission and the goal is always first.
Someone: But, but, but with leadership.
Someone: I try to de emphasize that I don't like the cult of the CEO myself I think it breeds
Someone: environment, and it's not good for a human being to have someone bow to you all the time with it, it's just not really good So, but but there is a leadership piece and over the years, there is a piece of well, a, in my case, you know, can we move forward and get things done and be. What's the nature of the organization.
Someone: Well, what about you, Christina de, what do you see the dividing liners.
Someone: I think as a leader you have to inspire people with your vision of what the product is, but your, your job as a leader is to constantly create clarity and constantly communicate a lot of change in a hydro startup environment. Yeah. And so I do think it is about creating and reinforcing Hey, this is the goal of the business. Here's what we're doing over and over again and so they do have to believe in your vision for the product, but on a day to day basis, and then gets them believing that you are competent and you're able to get that thing done exactly you go to take people with you on the journey. Yes. I mean, you've, you've scaled enormously over the last few years with eToro mean, what, what was the difference when do you notice the difference in company culture between, you know, you know 10 510 person startup and 800 employees where you are now, I think, a very big important thing is for everybody in the company to know the vision of the company to know the vision of the company first, and then to sort of believe in the execution thing. I think a big challenge for us was when we started to distribute globally we have now offices in 12 different countries. So when we're, like, a startup in one place, it was relatively easy for everybody to sort of have the same culture, being able to communicate the company's culture through presentations is something challenging that we constantly are trying to improve so vision, mission values and then culture, how does eToro look the same in different places. Sometimes there's been there's been a movement in some respects, in the last few years to more transparency to styles of leadership.
Someone: Do you think that that's something that you can sort of incorporate absolutely i mean it's it's interesting, we try to have a very open environment and be very transparent, we do things like we call it club Caspar Sam's Club where we're doing podcasts, very easy to talk about what we're trying to do with the organization. And what I find is when you're really transparent, is when kind of the magic happens so you know we share a lot of data, a lot of research we shared with our engineering team that one of the toughest things for members was checkout lines, and so two of our engineers were like well I think we could solve that. What if members could just use their own mobile phone scan all their items and walk out the door. And so they took that product vision and built that product we called it scan ago launched it a couple of years ago, and it was incredibly successful and still is. It's one of our best features for our members, but that came out of having a culture of sharing as much information with everybody in the organization. And that's where the great ideas came from. Christina DJI, what do you think about that subject. I think in order to grow quickly and make a lot of changes you have to maintain trust with a team, and you have to maintain trust throughout those changes and so when people implement, you know, kind of like radical transparency, as a fix all I think that can go terribly wrong, like, because there's a lack of trust okay now let's publish salaries or do things retro actively. I think if you create a culture, if the things that are rewarded in your environment are transparency to begin with. And if you attract like minded people, and that makes sense to them, then I think that works. I don't think it works to do it as a band aid after there's a problem, a trust problem right yeah you can't go straight transparency when things aren't good at the time. And you've got to build up, I guess, perhaps.
Someone: I mean, sometimes there is that sometimes thing, things go wrong, let's be honest in companies. And it's difficult to deal with that do you, I mean how do you prevent an unfriendly culture from developing, you know, when there are problems Mitchell.
Someone: Well, I'm going to speak in in our context which is highly distributed as well and which includes not just employees but a pretty large volunteer community, which is extremely remote and you may never see you know be years before you'd actually see someone face to face or sometimes know their real name. So, you know, in that setting, what what you have to create like what's the permission space, and then some clear rules about what's beyond it and delegate to people the ability to address it.
Someone: Because if you're really distributed and you have many different communities as we do you can't centralize everything and bring it in and say, you have to make a space where it's known like this is acceptable and this isn't, and there's always back and forth along the lines but you need to get that that piece distributed out, and of course when something really unfriendly or unacceptable happens you have to address it. Yeah. The we've had the meeting where we've had challenges about trying to create more diversity in companies.
Someone: How do you think the lead the whole concept of leadership has changed with that background Christina.
Someone: So I think in the post meets Hu era. It ought to have changed a hell of a lot more but it has. I think that when we look at the numbers around, you know, harassment and companies and things. It still is in the valleys still as 60% of women reporting you know some kind of misbehavior if 60% of our marketing qualified leads went out the door, we would be in total crisis, and we're supposed to be the disruptors. And so I think there's some steps in the right direction, but I do think there's lots lots more that we can be doing to you know to be leaders in this space. Yeah, it's not posed to me too is we're still having these issues, and it's becoming there's Lino, the problem is is very much systemic right a lot of the systems were built to uphold companies that looked radically different 50 years ago and so I think the leaders that are taking this on are looking at those systems are giving you know all of their employees a safe space to say did these systems work for you or not, they're looking at the part of their workforce that actually performs and saying hey, we have to have more diversity for our bottom line, not because it's the right thing to do. And moving in that direction. So, I suppose. You guys must have put in some systems to make sure that you can can maintain a good company culture in that respect. Absolutely. We have a lot of people who come in and Walmart is a company that really lives its values and one of our values is respect for the individual, and that you know has been decades long, I often give people Sam Walton's original book to talk about you know what's important our culture you talked about kind of a safe space and making sure that people know that and respond to that. But it's critical I think to make sure that's instilled through the whole company. Did you do it with eToro do you feel that there's something, you have a kind of way of rewarding people do you have sort of any ideas about how you reward great culture will not necessarily only culture but actually every Turo employee gets when he joins an eToro account with money in it so people actually use the product, and then we'll start with Eamonn and accountability and give it an account that money in it where they can sort of trade and invest in the markets. Yeah. Then, sort of, when people do great things they just sort of get more eToro credits. So it's like a tool that's not exactly money cuz they can only buy their options with it, eventually or take up profits but it's like something that connects them to the product in enables managers that eToro to sort of reward for great behavior. Mike Can I jump in here for a sec Jeff. One of the problems with cultures gone awry is we fail to really define it be clear about it right there's so many definitions of it and so at Andela, we define the culture as what is rewarded, and what is not rewarded what behaviors are rewarded in that and then we define those. And so I think a lot of people, you know, the way that you instill your values and your mission is are you living them in your behaviors. And to me, the clearest signal that leaders can give about what they're what is rewarded in their culture is who they hire fire and promote, who are you promoting that is the signal that all of your employees are going to look at and say, okay, that person embodies the correct culture, and who is not allowed to be there is who is not rewarded in that environment, it's a very very clear way to send the clearest signal about what your culture is and is not, that's really interesting that you should say that actually isn't it because people put superficial things in place like you know foosball table and beanbags and what have you, but really what they're doing is they're looking for your signal as 1000 manager, Ali. Absolutely. When you're hiring particular people who you promote Yes, I remember when we sort of started, there was the Netflix culture presentation with a no asshole rule. So, you know, we constantly sort of talk about the no asshole rule. At eToro I think the challenging there is asshole is a bit subjective right yet depends on depends on he, you don't like you reward the brilliant jerk or do you reward the, you know, hardworking ethical person, let's hope the signal, let's hope is the latter. You mentioned earlier, some of you were talking earlier about the rise of remote working, and I'm certainly TechCrunch we're also a distributed team, very much so.
Someone: How did you create a kind of culture and how do you be a leader in a, in such a remote and distributed manner, as we are. Today, many people barely even meet each other they communicate, communicate, communicate and over communicate so yeah, we just announced this week we bought a company in Belgium so suddenly we have an office in Belgium, great team. But now we need for them to learn about sort of what's the corporate strategy where do we want to get eToro we need to invest, much more and we're investing much more in sort of, you know, making the presentations right communication right corporate strategy and how basically why we're doing what we're doing, what are we doing and how do we plan to get there.
Someone: And we do a couple things. One is we're pretty explicit about not distributed for the sake of distributed but distributed because it allows you access to the best talent for what you need to do. And then in that environment, distributed as a skill set all its own can't just go work from home and call it great distributed work, so we hire people based on their social and emotional intelligence, their ability to get get feedback and incorporate it immediately and also do that in a distributed setting those kind of skill sets are we think what make an excellent distributed worker and being really specific about what makes a great worker is what can make the context or the culture, what's rewarded in that context, the same across multiple different countries we never I never want to change the Nigerian culture the Kenyan culture there, you know, amazing to be around those differences, the similarities are the behaviors that we that were reward to be an excellent engineer in a specific setting so we hire for that and we reward it. Well that's interesting because I think our remote workforce is perhaps more diverse in some of the skills and talents that that we hire for and maybe that's possible for us because we do have this volunteer community so often will know someone, and have been working with them. And so, but I on a remote piece. Sometimes, who makes decisions and where and how and when and I would say written communication is actually important. Many of our remote employees, like English is not necessarily their language, be, you know, it's wrapped in like we've been together and so the actually writing things down as a clarity. And I would say sort of authenticity and the degree to which you're actually living, whatever the culture is that you're trying to promote in. And if I finally could like where's decision making. Yeah, and finding what.
Someone: How can you get decision making closer to more people. Sometimes what we do is we put a whole ecosystem in in a specific geography so we have parts of our business that are run out of Bangalore, we have engineering product UX all there. And that makes a huge difference because then they're driving their own innovation out of that geography, and if you get that in multiple geographies that works pretty effectively. And we've seen really positive things come out for example from that team. It's 2019 soon it's going to be 2020. Funny how that happens.
Someone: In, which talking about the climate it's a huge issue now. What are we talking about leadership in the context of things like these huge global issues like the climate crisis, will you talking about leadership in the same way we do. Now, in five years time or will the emphasis with companies, be different. What do you think Mitchell.
Someone: I think we're seeing the change already that leadership or a CEO is not just how effective are you at your job, but it's also Are you in many cases behaving the way society expects or are you making the right sets of decisions and increasingly its treatment of people.
Someone: I would say equality and fairness, I think the me to movement is just the tip of what's illegal, not what's right, as well as climate change and I think they'll probably be more issues that rise to the questions of does your CEO does she do a good job you know how is she in with with investors. What about diversity What about climate change and you know we'll see what the next two or three are we going to yeah have them added on. We're looking at from the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Yeah, they actually their booth is just near our booth so I just saw the entire 17 goals. So eToro is a financial series of fit the company. We're more focused on economic inequality and how, what we do can eventually improve the quality and of course the sort of big hairy audacious goal of no poverty but for that purpose we actually created a nonprofit called the good dollar. Yeah, UBI in the block twist, Christina you've now recently moved into more of a chair Roland and know that you're going to be looking at new investors in the future. Will you be doing the same things the same way as you did in the past.
Someone: I think there are a lot of lessons and that I'll take with me, but this this idea of an interdependent world of leadership looking more diverse in every possible way and that being a competitive advantage, most, most definitely absolut question I think was will leadership look the same. I hope not. I think employees are speaking out and are outraged I think people that run a run sustainable companies are dealing with climate change and other issues. Anyway, I hope that the great leaders are the ones that that rise to the top and are able to really change and adapt to this. Well, I look forward to that. Brave New World, coming along but for me, Mike butcher from TechCrunch Thanks very much for joining us this morning. Thank you. Please thank our panel.
Someone: So, in 1984, American fashion designer Tommy Hilfiger created a brand of clothing that launched with a blitz marketing campaign, which included an incredibly bold billboard in New York City's Times Square, which announced Hilfiger as the next big thing in American fashion. So now 35 years later, the Tommy Hilfiger brand is stronger than ever. But with such a legacy of great success comes the demand to stay relevant and to remain even more innovative than ever before. If Hilfiger were to put up a billboard in New York's Times Square today, what would it say. So today we're delighted to be joined by the CEO of Tommy Hilfiger, who will share a big announcement about the future direction that the company is going to take. Please welcome to the stage. Mark Russell of British Vogue, and the CEO of Tommy Hilfiger Daniel Grieder.
Someone: Morning. Joining me on stage in just a moment is a CEO from one of the world's most recognized premium lifestyle brands. Daniel Grieder will be making the world first announcement for Tommy Hilfiger, and then he's going to share with us some of his insights on designing brands to disrupt something he knows well after four decades in the fashion industry, from an entrepreneur to a corporate CEO, who's embraced innovation and disruption at every stage, something he now brings to Tommy Hilfiger before he joins me. Let's take a peek at what he's going to share with us first. The next step on his company's ambitious, digital journey.
Someone: Daniel, how I welcome raga an exciting ambition, and could you explain a little more about this.
Someone: Yeah. First of all, I think, in today's world. It's important that you drive innovation, and that you disrupt the world. And with our new technology, we announced that we will design, everything that comes from Tommy hundred percent digital in two years. That doesn't mean we only start now. We started our journey already two and a half years ago, and today we are actually 50% there, but of course it's not only designing digital is also to train the people to inform the factory and implemented into the current business, and that's what's happening in the next two years. I have the, I should imagine this has the potential to change things pretty radically I think we've got a slide up there with the six sort of key impacts. Yes, so that everybody understand what were the big change is happening. So we already are digital in the selling. So we started somewhere that you see that on the right side. That's what we already have in our showroom so we are selling already digital, that means we are not using samples. We already have the Store of the Future, which has a lot of technology in the store. And also there you can buy digitally. What we now add is the design and just to explain that how it works. Until today, design is happening on a paper so a designer draws everything on a paper, he selects fabric he selects stylist selects for him he selects all the details. And then it goes to the factory. that is going to be a pattern made, and then the Create a sample that sample will be sent back, and the designer checks if it is fine. If he doesn't like it he has to design, all over again, and has to do a second sample we call it the proto sample. In the future, in the past, you had to do something like two to three produce samples, until you could send it to the factory today and that's the revolution in the industry you design everything digitally, you basically can design in one day you you design you select the pattern. And with all that together, you send it direct to the factory, and it can be produced immediately. So, the time that you are saving. Yeah, and that says, sustainability you are adding to your business is immense and huge. Is this something that you've had to sort of train that designers with, or do you find designers who are already aware of this kind of technology, or is it something you've, as I say you've had to coach them on. No, that's not because we are the first fashion company, who is going into that design you hardly find any designers, what we have is an amazing team of technician 3d design. Experts transformation people in stitch that's as a company within the company. Yeah, that doing nothing else then actually creating all that content, and then also the stitch Academy, trains, all hundreds of designer to make sure they can execute. This is very clearly, sort of disruptive idea and the elements of disruption as you've had throughout your career, what, what is it what is the disruptive brand to you what is the disruptive idea in business. Well, as I said in the beginning I think to be able in this world to perform, and to do know where you want to play, and to win, you need to be innovate, innovative and disruptive. So today, it's always a balance between, you know you need to disrupt to be disrupted you need to you need to be disruptive and you cannot disrupt the bit the whole business so you always have to find the line to disrupt the business model, but you cannot be, you cannot disrupt the business otherwise you're gone. I think you said this disrupted without disruption with exactly where did those disruptive ideas come from in a business.
Someone: Business like Tommy Hilfiger which is huge.
Someone: This is actually it's a bit, our culture. We love to be entrepreneurs we like, we love to be innovative, that's a whole culture that actually comes from the whole company everybody's invited to bring new ideas on the table. We had the director elevator speech where everybody can present their ideas, and we really take those from internal ideas, it's not coming from a company outside, It comes internally. And if you know if I, if I say the digital showroom how that will happen, it's actually the idea of, you know, seeing the weatherman on TV. Right, I saw this guy, explaining us the weather, where the clouds is moving from west to east on a huge something like gigantic screen like this. And I thought, Why can he present the weather Why can we not present our brand and our collection on that screen, and that's where the idea started having a digital showroom. So that was almost sort of disruption as a eureka moment. Yes. But that's only the beginning. You have to disrupt the know the Store of the Future we have to disrupt the design as we just do. And there's much more to come in this world, which brings me to my next question, actually, this project, didn't happen overnight. How did you lay the foundations for a 3d design. Yeah. So I think we have a slide for that. So everything that happened already happened in the past two and a half years that means you have to create the digital components the library this the colors the fits all needs to be there which you see here on the left and in the middle. And with that you start to merchandise, your collection. Basically digitally but it's that foundation to take your library is, it's, it's, it takes time and there's so many people involved and you have to train people how to use all that in the past you did everything manually so again you had the drawing and then you have to select the style and you have to select the fabric and the pattern and this is all in one library so it's much faster, and this will always be updated again and Ben brought to the newest technology. I guess it's easier to keep record of all these designs as well, without keeping them in the vast archive. Yes, somewhere, so it's all from manual to digital and and i think you know in the past you did that by hand on boards and you have Do you know you took the picture and then you put the fabrics and then the sales people can look on that. That's gone. That's hundreds of hours hundreds of people have been involved. This can be done by one person, and within basically in a third of the time as it was before. Do you think there will still be a place within there for the sort of traditional design as well or do you think it's negated by the possibilities, but I think it's a transformation, it's no nothing happens overnight, as we saw that those in the digital showroom and you had the salesperson who was used to sell with a sample, you don't learn that overnight, and we have designers, they, they used to draw on the paper, and they have now to use it in the digital way. It's the same as I had to learn from writing letters. You know, using my computer or the, the mobile phone. I think that's just a transformation. Every we'll, we'll go through and when you want started, you don't want to give it up again right. And what does achieve in 100% 3d apparel design by it spring 2022 I think is the ambition. What does that look like.
Someone: You mean the way we have another, I think we have for the audience even a little test, so you can raise your hands if you can see. Do we see it. Oh, not yet.
Someone: Okay that was, that was the slide where you could see. Maybe you tried to do it right.
Someone: I know more have the magic touch OK, so the technique, here we are one of us has the magic so one of these items is done in a traditional way and one is done in a digital way, who thinks the left one is the digital Hans raisin.
Someone: Okay, who thinks the right one is digital.
Someone: Okay.
Someone: I have to say, all the moron who thought is the right one is wrong.
Someone: So you hardly can see any difference, but the amount of time that it took to make that sample was again assert of what the right sample took.
Someone: Wow.
Someone: Amazing. Right, absolutely, and it will be the full collection by sprinkle collections. No matter which division men's, women's kids jeans. And also, every product group will be fully digital. Fantastic. And you did sort of reference this earlier on, but on top of the speed and efficiency which is at the heart that there's also a real sustainability benefit. Yes. Was that front and center of your thinking. When you were developing this. Well, first of all, I think sustainability became so important over the past three years. And you, we we we invest a lot into that new technology to become more and more sustainable. The digital showroom we know that you can do that without samples is already a huge effort to become much more sustainable. The digital design also that new chapter will make us much more sustainable, because you don't have to produce all the samples you will have less weight waist. You don't have to ship all the samples you don't have to airfreight all the samples, so it, everybody, not only us the whole world will benefit all of us have this, not even because of, you know, let alone the costs, it's also going to be much cheaper, and most importantly much faster, and today's world is much more about being consumer centric, and here we can act much more consumer centric and much faster to do the end consumer and his needs us just a moment ago reference to the whole world but when we're talking about the whole fashion industry, which on occasion can be quite guarded. And the way that fashion houses work and presumably, this is going to be a lot of fashion brands will want to replicate this in some way this technology. Is that something you'd be open to sharing is it something that'll be a absolut Actually, we want that the whole industry is taking that over, and also our digital showroom you know we don't want to keep it for us we want to make. We want to help the industry so we don't want to only disrupt our business and our brand, we want to disrupt the whole industry. And I think if we, we created with hatch that's another sub company of ours. they will be able to actually make a business in the business means the digital showroom digital design, we're going to sell to other companies, so everybody can benefit of all this newness, we bring to the, to the industry, and everybody can benefit. And at the end, everything can become more sustainable so not only us as a company, but the whole industry. That's what we hope that's the aim behind everything. Sounds good to me.
Someone: Daniel Grieder, thank you very much indeed.
Someone: If you want to hear more about Daniel Grieder and the and Tommy Hilfiger is plans. And you can see Daniel 1215, on the, on the modem stage I think you're doing the keynote at fashion tech transforming a timeless brand, I'll be there. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marco to it. Thank you.
Someone: It's very important for conferences like this to exist. They enable the movement of ideas, the value of the conference was beyond just the week, you got to get your message out to so many people. It's really a very clear statement about the position for Toronto. It brings a diversity of talent into the room. Toronto and collision are handed. Can't wait to come back next.
Someone: So, just last August muscle Yoshi son, the CEO of SoftBank declared that we work is the next Alibaba. We work has since lost 93% of its market valuation. And in the wake of this we work story. And as more and more commentators question valuations are we witnessing a paradigm shift in Silicon Valley to dive deeper into this topic please welcome to the stage, Emil Protalinski of VentureBeat Ravi, this one, this one, Nathan of new view capital and lightspeed Venture Partners, Rytis, Vitkauskas.
Someone: Hello. Hello. So I'd like to kick this off by reading a quick paragraph from the Atlantic article that I think really sets the stage for this talk.
Someone: If you wake up on a Casper mattress workout with a peloton before breakfast, Uber to your desk Gedda we work order doordash for lunch take a Lyft home and get dinner through Postmates you've interacted with seven companies that will collectively lose nearly 14 billion this year, $14 billion this year. If you use lamb scooters Depop around the city download wag to walk your dog and sign up for Blue Apron to make a meal. That's three more brands that have never recorded a diamond earnings or have seen their valuations fall by more than 50%.
Someone: So, your thoughts, talk about your funds a little bit, and your thoughts on that.
Someone: Sure. Yeah, so I'm Ravi Viswanathan it's great to be here.
Someone: I found a new view capital about a year ago is spun out from new enterprise associates a firm that I was a general partner for many years, it's really a growth equity firm to capitalize on this whole trend towards companies staying private longer so it's a growth equity platform.
Someone: And I would say my thought on that is the extreme example is 20 years ago I'd mentioned. When I was living in New York, there's two delivery services called one's called urban fetch the other called Cosmo, and we would order a Ben and Jerry's pint of ice cream which is $3 and 50 cents. And so we pay $3 and 50 cents and we get. Ben Jerry's ice cream. Two t shirts, three warm cookies and a canvas bag, probably cost $50, so that was you. So, how that movie ended. So I think the title of this is the whole pivoting the profitability for me it's more of a reset that we'll talk about here so great. I'm Rytis Vitkauskas. I'm a partner with lightspeed Venture Partners over here in Europe.
Someone: We've been fortunate to invest in some of the very successful consumer and enterprise companies over the years. On the on this specific question here, it's you know it's fair to say the extreme of what you've just described Emil is what we sometimes jokingly call VC to see business model right so venture capital going straight into consumers pockets basically subsidizing some of the consumption.
Someone: I would say though that you know not all companies are created equal. There, there's reasons why. So long as you're, you know, Bernaert growing very fast, and you're spending their fast so long as that duality is sensible.
Someone: Some of the best companies get created that way. It's sometimes just takes years and years before you get the scale and become really profitable. So, I don't know that every company is the same, and therefore we just cautious of applying that framework universally without looking at each company's business model. So would you say that this is an extreme case, what we're saying with basically subsidizing the millennial lifestyle is that, you know, it's with some companies ciders, and with others that is not if I'm just looking at Europe, and you know without necessarily, sort of, you know, implying anything on the, on the other companies but let's just take you know a company like Spotify, for example, right. It took them over 10 years to turn the first profit and yeah, this is the biggest venture backed exit outcome to come out of Europe.
Someone: It just takes time sometimes to get to scale to get the product into the right shape and frankly for the ecosystem to accept what you do, until you become a really profitable business, which doesn't mean you're a bad business all along but it doesn't mean you burn a lot of capital as you get there, other business models that maybe don't have a stronger fundamentals may never get there in the end, so that's really where the interesting sort of division lies, which one is which. Yeah, I would I'd say is it's not so much funding the millennial lifestyle as it is thinking about customer acquisition costs, these are all consumer facing businesses that you mentioned. And so it's really about metrics and can you acquire customers profitably. And if you can't acquire customers profitably that hamster wheel never really ends, and you're, you're basically doomed to failure. The flip side is when you have network effects marketplace effects, strong product market fit a sticky product a real value proposition. So I think what you're also seeing is the companies that are getting rewarded. Very much have all of those things and the ones that don't, the markets are seeing through that and they're penalizing, sometimes pretty severely. So it's interesting that you brought up Europe. Could you guys talk a little bit because you're not just investing in Silicon Valley, of course. So, what are you seeing in Europe are you seeing in China, Israel Middle East. Is it different, is what we're seeing in, so go to the extreme as it often is or is there some pushback.
Someone: Having to start Diageo lightspeed we're a global platform, and we have offices in in the in San Francisco Menlo Park, Israel, London China, India, so really have a global, you know, pretty global perspective, in that sense. And you're right I don't think this is a, you know, Silicon Valley phenomenon in that sense.
Someone: If anything, actually, we've seen in Europe, historically, you know, a more modest appetite for like high spend overall in the venture in the tech space so entrepreneurs are naturally more inclined to build durable business models from early on. But then after a couple of success stories that didn't look like that at all and that being really really big companies now I think people are starting to feel like okay, there is appetite, there's this market acceptance and there's the investor base to invest significant capital into letting companies scale out fast in Europe, too. So I think it's almost like Europe sort of moved in the opposite direction like very quickly. And now the moderation is sort of you know maybe it's there a little bit but you know i'd be hard pressed to say that let's say in the European Investment landscape, there is this definitive shift. You know towards you know profitability, so long as you know what Ravi described you know that duality is you know it's sensible Wright growth and and your fundamental physics of your business model does it work do people come back to your service is your service awesome. If it is and you're spending a lot to grow it to a lot of people are a lot of customers, and they keep coming back, you'll build something durable, if they don't come back, you won't. I mean the fundamental it comes back to, you know, relatively simple sort of equation. Yeah, I think outside the US we also invest outside the US. A lot of it. I think Silicon Valley certainly is could be viewed as the more extreme. I think a lot of it also it's also a consumer versus enterprise if you look at enterprise, the institutional market, and especially the public market investors pretty much have a good handle on what they want to see is the business model easily understandable. Is it repeatable. Do you have metrics that make sense there's efficiency metrics that actually people use to say, for every dollar you spend on sales and marketing What are you getting back. What is retention, all of these things I feel like, and the really elite companies data dog being one of them that just went out. Those are really best in class in those metrics and they will get very very well rewarded and the flip side is they don't. I will say, though, that the narrative now and this is, it's almost a cyclical narrative it happened several years ago in Silicon Valley where the narrative on the distance to profitability and the path to profitability becomes a bigger part of the story, versus just growth at all costs, and you're seeing that return. Usually that's initiated by the public markets, the we work situation and others because they're the final arbiter of that and once that happens you actually, I actually do think it's very healthy because it forces boards management teams investors. Everyone in all the other constituencies to really look within themselves and make sure these companies become durable, and if they aren't durable then maybe if they're not a public company maybe it's an act, it's some other exit. Right. We're good. Now I just wanted to maybe add one last sort of more global perspective, what, what has happened over the years so maybe we'll touch on this in a second is, there's definitely more global pools of capital available, and some of them are extremely large something that we just had not seen in venture capital industry for years. Right. Never before perfect, not just for years, we've never seen never right so we were talking about earlier.
Someone: The master Yoshi son, you know, he's kind of changed the game, so you have companies that used to raise 10 2030 million. Now they're raising hundred 200 300 million and it's, It's just been is that the new normal. I mean, we were talking about, you know, dog walking company raising $300 million. Like, that's a bit much. Yeah.
Someone: So, the new normal there's two ways to think about it is raising larger and larger private capital the new normal. And then another question is, is raising that much capital into business models that may not be sustainable, the new normal. I don't think that's the new normal we just saw some, some real examples where, where the markets really punish you if you're if you're not thinking long term. I do think with the amount of capital, even before the SoftBank effect. There's just a lot more private capital, and if you look at the last 3040 years you know in the 80s and 90s. Most of the value in tech companies was post IPO yet some of the early tech companies go public at very much lower valuation sometimes not even unicorn status right now they're staying private longer. They're, they're getting to scale much more, and then they're testing the market so I do think being able to these large funding rounds. I think they're probably not the new normal. You know in venture capital the new normal could be two years or three years because of the, because of the speed that these markets evolve, but for sure, the amount of capital in the system. You're going to see a lot more of that.
Someone: Yeah, please. What do you think that impact will be right we're going to presumably continue to see companies raising exorbitant amounts of money, it's going to continue growing.
Someone: But you have companies that raise that amount of money, and then sure we have extreme cases like we work, but we work aside, with companies that's, you know, don't have to significantly downsize and, you know, hit tick valuation hit, how do they prevent that what's what's, is it just going to be like you were talking about path to profitability is going to just be you know much more strict about that. Are we going to see you know prices rise or people in the audience is going to notice that their Hoover Iser now suddenly twice as much because we were asked to start making money they said they're going to try to kind of try for 2021 and we saw them this week enter into ads to try to make that happen. Yeah, I think anytime there's a consumer facing service.
Someone: And you have these companies that are unprofitable that need to get to profitability. You know, you know we're getting the rent front, we're getting the rent from the consumer so it's not unreasonable to believe that maybe the rise are going to go up or there's other ways they can monetize it's not just rides Uber's getting into Uber Eats and a lot of other other business models. So I definitely think that's the case, I think fundamentally though these companies are raising more and more. They're also has there's a whole other paradigm, which is, how do investors get liquidity right which is actually a talk that's coming on a little bit later. And that needs to happen, because if that doesn't happen that's kind of the lifeblood of our industry venture capital industry there isn't liquidity to the shareholders, that is a problem. So, these rounds can continue but there needs to the hope is the rounds continue. There's more discipline and management teams and boards, and they fundamentally can go out later. If there isn't then you're going to continue to have some of these we work type situations.
Someone: One of the benefits of, you know, having been investing in this space you know for now for 12 years you know and European entrepreneurs been in the industry since 2008 is that you realize just how long, how long term of a game, you know venture capital really is, we read about these overnight success stories right and these you know big companies that just seemed to sort of emerge out of nowhere, not a single company went from start to greatness in a straight line. There's always a path, it's very very. Exactly, and you just have to also like as an investor make a judgment call sometimes is the fundamental strength of what the company offering good enough to weather that bumpy ride, and the strength can be in the enormous advantage of the technology itself, great network effects that Ravi was mentioning, enormous stickiness, you know, repeat rates, something very special about the engagement of the customer to the product. If it's there, there is a good chance that whether you need to downsize along the way. And by the way, in and of itself that's not a bad thing, you may need to rationalize as you figure out how your model really fits into the broader, you know market. Whether it is, you know, increasing prices somewhat to certain customer groups for example because they're charging up some optimally. Whether it is just becoming more efficient with your marketing spend, whether you finance the company differently right instead of equity you look at other, so there's a whole set of tools, but so long is a fundamental business model and the strength of what you're doing is real likelihood is that as a company you will still come out the other end, being a great business. Now that's missing the fundamental core is missing, and it's not a defensible business model you know those times just not so the opposite of what I just said. This is where it becomes problematic so if you had raised a lot of capital and your business is fundamentally not a very strong business. The physics don't really work all that well, this is one will see problematic and outcomes. But you know what, history gets written only when it gets written then that's you know when things are clear and it is a bumpy ride between now and then. Right.
Someone: So we're nearing the end of the panel, really quickly. Yes or no. is Silicon Valley pivoting the profits. And I guess if you want to add to that or is it just a reset.
Someone: I call it a reset I'm hopeful it's more of a permanent reset than a temporary reset. So yes or no. Is it is it like a random thing Silicon Valley's pivoting to profits but there's just more attention to how sensible, the growth in the efficiency duality are, there's a bit more focused on that certainly, right, perfect. Alright so we have one yes, we have one No, and all the nuance in between that. All right. Thank you very much. Oh, thank you.
Someone: Please welcome to the stage, co host of rise and co founder of startups Hong Kong, Casey Lau.
Someone: On April 7 2019 Our next guest headline in front of 82,000 spectators at the Met live stadium New York in wrestling mania an event so big, it's described as the Super Bowl of sports entertainment. Her wrestle mania win against Ronda Rousey and Charlotte flair, mark the pinnacle of an ambitious rise to stardom for the woman that became known simply as the man here chart that eklektik rise from nothing to superstar in conversation with Emma Paton of Sky Sports. Please welcome to the stage, WWE superstar Mann, Becky Lynch
Someone: superstar handy industry, WWE superstar, Becky to bells, Becky Lynch, WWE superstar, Becky.
Someone: The most relentless person that you have ever met.
Someone: It's all about believing in yourself.
Someone: Believing in yourself, more than putting people believe in you. You have been such a huge part of the transition and the extraordinary Rise of the role that women have played at WWE Wim I am most proud of working my way to be this year's Main Event first ever women's main event in rustle mania history, we can't argue with the fan support. They love the man. You are so incredibly popular and we said we're having you on the show people got very very excited about it.
Someone: Be able to main event the rest of mania. And then Pulver of the video game feels like nothing's impossible will always, always, always find a way to win in the end.
Someone: Hello everybody is an absolute pleasure to be here today and a real pleasure to be sitting alongside this incredible woman, and I'm sure you're all as excited as I am to hear Becky story in her own words today. and you saw a little taste of there in that video but for anyone that doesn't know. Becky, otherwise known as the man has torn up the rulebook and completely redefined what it means to be a female athlete in sports entertainment. One of the first women to headline at wrestle mania Becky continues to push her industry forward. And that extends way beyond the ring as well recently, becoming the first female to feature on the front cover of the latest wwe to Katie video game. Now I want to start off by talking about personal branding, you saw a glimpse in that video, but millions and millions of WWE fans around the world. No Becky as the Mann. It is a complete masterclass in personal branding, how did you come up with that concept. So, in my industry in, in most industries right, the person who is the least the top of the game they've always been referred to us the mad and open till now that person had always been a man and. And so I looked at the landscape and there was a women's revolution and I realized that I was becoming the face of the company and so therefore, I was the man and and, well, we had this women's revolution and this women's empowerment thing, I thought, this is kind of thought provoking This is going to get people talking, and I'm sure there's going to be a lot of people going Why aren't you calling yourself the woman. But for me it was a way of going into the guy's locker room, going into the whole company and saying, I'm taking over on the man now. And when you look back, can you pinpoint, one moment that was the most energizing moment the moment where you thought you know what I've done something special here this is exactly what being a man is all about. So, I don't know if any of you guys are wrestling fans, and if not, you should be, because I'm on top of the game and it's great right now.
Someone: So, there was a point where, obviously, I was the good guy I was the underdog always did the right thing but would always come up short. And I had a match against Charlotte flair and Carmelo was a title match at some Islam one of our biggest events of the year, and on my best friend at the time Charlotte won the title and it was an opportunity that I was supposed to have a match that I was supposed to win. And I was supposed to turn heel which means I was supposed to be the bad guy and was supposed to act out and, and at the end of that match after she won the title, I slapped her so hard that my hand hurt for days, that it was heard all around America, probably around the rest of the world to and and the crowd went mad, and it really showed people that I had something there that I had this connection with the crowd.
Someone: Because people related to that story. And that's all this is that's all, anything is that's how we all communicate that's all, how we bond we all bond through stories, and this story of somebody who had been constantly deprived and constantly overlooked and constantly did the right thing, saying, I've had enough. And I don't care what it takes, I'm going to do it. And, and the crowd erupted and. And from then it's, it's, it's just been like this, you know, a little bit of it. But a lot of this. And let's take it back to the beginning. What was the dream as a 15 year old growing up in Dublin. Um, so, as a 15 year old growing up in Dublin, there wasn't a dream, right, that was the thing was that I had no direction nowhere really wanted to go in life no dedication to anything I even failed P. And after failing P. I said, Rebecca. This is ridiculous. Come on, I think your past from just showing up and you've been showing up. You need to change your life around and I was a big wrestling fan. So I found out they were opening a school in in Bray County Wicklow which was about an hour and a half away from me. Oh, I really like wrestling that would be a cool way to get fit all the wrestlers are real fit. So I went along and I go into this wrestling school and I'm expecting to see a wrestling ring it's one word in a wrestling school, but there wasn't there was just six blue padded mats on the ground and a bunch of skinny teenagers, and that was how I started my, my journey. And even though it was it was rough and ready, I loved it and I never felt a dedication to something or passion or love for something like I did, I just wanted to get better and it completely turned my life around. All of a sudden I had, I had a dream and.
Someone: And I know, I just wanted to be the best with this. And I'm sure many of you in the audience have seen a film that came out earlier this year called fighting with my family which is all about one of your fellow superstars a former superstars page, and it's about her journey as a young woman in wrestling and it's littered with funny stories and anecdotes. Do you have any specific stories that you think about now when you look back. Wow. Well, gosh, so many because it's funny I stayed with her and her family while I was on the, on the way up and. But, I left tome at 15 I go over to England to train over there train with people like pages mother wrestle with her mother, and, and then, and then I moved off to Canada when I was 18 and then I would wrestle around there but like I showed up with absolutely no money, hoping to figure it out and hoping to make the best of of my life as a pro wrestler, and I, I had absolutely no plan I was just hoping for the best but I ended up going off to Japan there and then main eventing in Japan and then coming back to American wrestling around there and then, and then I gave it all for seven years because my visa ran out and I, I couldn't find.
Someone: I couldn't find a way to get to where I wanted, and I got frustrated and I got lost and my mom was begging me to quit. And so I said okay all right let me let me give it up, let me do something else and so I spent seven years trying to figure out what I wanted to do an Andrew becoming a flight attendant for Lingus if anybody flew over on earlier today. And, and I went back to college I did my personal training and diploma I ended up doing my degree in acting because I thought what I love about wrestling is performing it's being able to be on the stage talk to people. And so we did that and then, and then when that was finished I was trying to find a job and I was looking over handy my resume my headshot everywhere, and I end up getting a call from the Vikings. and they were shooting in Ireland at the time they're like hey do you just don't. I said, Sure, that's, that's what I do, I'm a stone woman. And I hung up the phone and I was like oh my god what have I gotten myself into I have no idea how I'm going to make this work. And so I went along to a wrestling school, I was always good at wrestling so if I can, if I can take what I know from wrestling, and that confidence and apply it to this weather nobody's can be any the wiser. And so I did that and when I went and did the class the wrestling class. The person who was teaching said, Wow, you still have it Have you ever thought about going for a WWE try it. I was like, Nah man I'm doing my acting thing I'm doing my stone thing, apparently, and he was like well I think you should go for it because I think you'd get it. And just like that, it felt like everything fell into place seven years of searching for what what I wanted to do was just gone out the window is like okay, I'm on of course I'm on a mission I know what I'm meant to do. And you mentioned that things like your mom, even wanting you to give up wrestling. There was no social media what you want to come up and role models were far far less accessible you're someone now who has four and a half million followers on Instagram, alone, how do you use your channels to connect with your followers and how just how important is that connection. So I think that when I look when I looked at my rise when I started becoming the man and everything. I really utilize social media to my benefit, and I think I I saw it as a way to use it almost as a political campaign, how can I get people to elect me to the main event of rustle mania because I wasn't meant to be in the main event resume mania no way no hat.
Someone: But I saw it as a way to get my message across constantly. I was this underdog, I was this person who had to prevail and have to find different methods to connect with people. So what really started to use that platform and i would i would enter into Twitter wars and and try to stir conflict because like I said, that's what that's what we all bond around we all bond around storytelling. And what better story is there the conflict so I really try to engage in that means, and I would use it. I would always have to win the wars, especially on Michelman, now now not so much now I can sit back a little bit, but just to try and be as engaging and entertaining as possible to let people know what I thought, and to let people in on my humor to let people know that I am the mob. And it really, it really worked like you saw that, that, that messaging, then translated onto TV, so I would try to go. Okay. Does this all correlate is what I'm saying on Twitter, the same as what I'm saying on TV is what I'm saying on TV, the same as what I'm, I'm showing on Instagram and just so that everything would merge and be synergistic, and obviously you've had some incredible high moments you talk about that main event in wrestle mania. What were the lowest points on your journey and, more importantly, how did you overcome them. Oh, the lowest journey was probably when I gave up the lowest point should I say on the journey was probably when I gave up wrestling because as a 15 year old kid 1617 1819 identified myself as oh I'm Rebecca, the wrestler, I have this thing that I do and when that was gone. I didn't know who I was, I didn't have that thing that I could identify myself with, and I really went into depression and I was trying to figure out and search for for what that was that I, and I did things like bodybuilding and ended up coming out with a, an eating disorder from that and and I'm really just trying to figure out, Okay, what is my identity, if it's not this person that looks a certain way or if it's not this person that feels a certain thing. And, and it was really humbling those seven years was was just lots of trying to figure out who Rebecca the person was. And
Someone: there were there were moments of okay maybe maybe it's this like like when I was acting. Okay, I'm at home with this I'm good at this, and just really trying to rebuild my confidence and.
Someone: But I think the best thing was that I never, never gave in to anything. So, I would always just try to overcome it. I acknowledge the problems, what are these issues that I have. And let me face them, and let me keep moving forward. And okay, what might or possibly want to do I might possibly want to take a cooking course I might possibly want to teach English as a foreign language I might possibly want to be a bartender in New York and I did all those things. And, and I think finding out what you don't want to do is as beneficial as finding out what you do want to do because eventually you'll get there if you keep moving. It's just so much easier to to act your way into different thinking, as opposed to think your way into different action.
Someone: And that's what I did, and helped.
Someone: And it's currently an incredible time to be a woman in WWE. Tell us about being part of this women's evolution because you've been at the forefront of it. Yeah, so even, even when I started when I got signed to WWE, the women's marches were three minutes long. I remember telling one of my really good friends that are wanted to Main Event rustle mania he said it's nice to have dreams but be realistic. And not that wasn't that wasn't him being necessarily negative it sounds super negative, but it was just almost unthinkable that women would Main Event rustle mania now it seems on thinkable to think that it was unthinkable.
Someone: But, so when I came in I was also told move like a girl and I was like, Well, I'm a girl in a moving so what what does that even mean and, but I just wanted to be good. Like, regardless of my gender I just wanted to be good. I just wanted to tell solid stories I just wanted to have the best match on the card and take gender out of the equation, because it shouldn't be part of the equation. I am in the best wrestling company in the entire world. I should be good at my job. We should all be good at our jobs. So why does it matter if I'm, if I'm male or female. And that's really what I started to do when I was with a group of women who had the same vision the same passion the same goal. We love this business and we just want to make it the best and coolest thing on TV. And that's what we work towards and there was a group of us, myself Charlotte flair, Sasha Banks and Bailey, we became known as the four horse women, and every match that we had, when it was on TV, we would steal the show. And so, people started to take notice they would start to realize that hey, girls can have as good matches, if not better matches than the guys, the girls can tell better stories than the guys. The girls are interesting character shocking and.
Someone: And we just kept working and there was one time when there was a 32nd women's march on TV. And there, started to be a hashtag. Hashtag give divas a chance and trended for three days straight. So, WWE paid attention to that they realize that that the audience is ready for something different, they're ready to see us come in and do what we do best, which is kick ass. And, and so they started this women's women's revolution which turned into women's evolution and and you know it's had to take offs and we've had a bit of truck we had a bit of trouble getting started, you know, because the whole thing was that we just, it wasn't about seeing more women's marches It was about giving the women time to develop their characters, it was about allowing us to have good stories that we could sink our teeth in, and then let us show what we could do. And so now we've, we've gotten there, what I wanted with the main event of wrestle mania was I didn't want it to be a token corporate gesture of Okay, it's time for the women to main event. I wanted the crowd to want it, and they wanted it, and for me was the biggest accomplishment. Because when we went on at midnight. Everybody was still there everybody was still in their seats and everybody still got up and cheered. When I walked out as Becky to belt.
Someone: And just lastly, when you ultimately look back on your career way way in the future. What do you want your legacy to be greatest of all time.
Someone: That's all.
Someone: I don't think that's too much to ask. No, but I want I want people to look back and realize that man if, if, if I can do it, anybody can do it. If you have the passion you have the drive, you have the work ethic, and I realized that I changed the game a little bit. But, but there was nothing special about me other than I love this, and I connect with a crowd, because I saw that they're the people that put me in this place. They allow me to do what I love to do, and I just appeal to them and I hope people can learn to that that if you just, if you pay attention to what your audience wants. Then my God, anything is possible. Now that you've certainly proved anything is possible. So we look forward to seeing you make more history. Ladies and gentlemen, the man.
Someone: Thank you so much. Thank you.
Someone: FinTech disruption has prevailed over scrutiny and skepticism since leaving no doubt that it is here to stay with brick and mortar banking on its way out it's hard to argue against the value of breaking the old models, but regulation and security are still a concern as new players fight to make their mark with both sides of the argument in mind, we are about to welcome a group of FinTech trailblazers who give their vision for the next big change in conversation with Felix salmon of Axios. Please welcome to the stage, founder and CEO of Starling bank and Boden co founder and CEO of plaid Zach Perret and founder and CEO of Revolut Mc Storonsky.
Someone: Guys, this is the FinTech panel we're excited about this. This is the. According to the program, the panel about how cash is dead and brick and mortar banks are on their way out, and you guys are the mammals who are going to take over from the dinosaurs, and I'm not convinced. To be honest, I'm not entirely convinced about the premise here so the first question is, is this true, and I'm going to start with you, Zach, because you, you run this company which basically powers, all of the fin techs you're in the back and no one sees you, but you're ubiquitous you're like, the Holy Spirit, you kind of make everything happen in the background.
Someone: Is it true that that disruption is has changed the face of fine finances the caches disappeared the brick and mortar banks are on the way out. Well that's high praise. Certainly we hope right behind all the FinTech companies but we have some work to do. And we. So cash is not dead, of course, everybody still carries cash users cash it's incredibly prevalent. And so the premise that cash is dead. No, not true. And we've seen a massive shift towards FinTech and increasingly this concept of having your all of your financial relationships in a bank branch that you walk down the street go in and talk to a teller. That's in the past, almost exclusively people say that they want to use digital finance use FinTech products to interact with their bank or interact with their money in a way that doesn't require you to talk to a human, pick up the phones, print out documents send it to people. I think we're in the early innings of kind of the digital transformation of FinTech. We're seeing a huge number of consumers start to use FinTech products, but not all that many consumers fully convert onto only using FinTech or Neo bank products. But I suspect we will see that in the next couple years.
Someone: And you're running one of the most successful Neo banks in the UK.
Someone: You like how do you get those customers today, coming to you and saying we really unhappy with our old banks and we want someone friendlier.
Someone: I think that customers at the moment are experiencing lots of tools and apps in all sorts of different parts of their daily life, and the banks have not been keeping up the banks have been focused since the financial crisis on their own problems because I was one of them. You know I work for all the big banks.
Someone: And I came to the conclusion that the old system is broken. I couldn't fix the old system so I quit, to start a new bank so I was there, I realized that I was fighting this battle to keep everything together. And the easiest way of giving customers what they want was to quit and start a new bank, and at the moment we have droves of people. Millions of people, embracing this new technology, embracing FinTech and using new banks and apps for their daily financial life. So I was talking to this woman who promised me she would be in the audience today. Last night, I said she's she came up to me so you have to ask, and because she she's like, exactly what you just said, The, it doesn't work, trying to change a bank from within. If you are a big old bank, you can't do this stuff you need to be independent. She's like, what happens when they get bought by a big bank I mean that you're going to wind up exiting you're going to become part of a giant institution and then you're going to die, that's, that was a fear. Okay, I think what's gonna actually happen in the industry is a couple of things, all the big banks will copy, absolutely everything that we're doing in the next two years so they'll always be two years behind us, but they'll copy up security everything. And the question is, they'll copy that on top of their existing infrastructure. And they'll do it on an ever increasing cost base. So it's not a battle of innovation. This is the Battle of cost base, and they will not keep up and eventually realize, they'll have to focus on certain business lines or the distribution or the pipes, they'll have to make choices, and then we'll have a reconfiguration of the traditional banking industry.
Someone: Nick is this true Can you operate. Do you need to be independent to be successful.
Someone: Yes.
Someone: So good to know that you have now heard both Nick and Anne say that they're never going to sell out to a major bank because they will they will be doomed them and you can hold them to that give an example. Okay, so what normally happens when a big bank and a large organization buys a tech company. They say nothing will ever change you know we you be allowed to carry on doing things, then the second day they say, just use our HR system. Right. And the following day, just use our email, and it's a slippery slope, and within a couple of years, you know, innovation, cease to happen, and the organization cannot move forward. The thing about FinTech and the new banks is that we moving very very fast. We talked about starting in the month square, we do in a month installing what I did in years at a traditional bank, I was there, I was part of that system. And I quit. To do this, I mean Nick Kieran, how many countries now 35.
Someone: Pretty impressive for a bank there aren't that many banks in that many countries and you're How old are four years old, so we we initially launched UK Yvonne you know spread across Europe, now we are in five countries outside of Europe as well. And I agree with them it's, it's impossible to do anything in a in an old bank organization, first problem process, right, because processes are built on old tools right which are suboptimal second problem is actually people right because people is part of the process as well, right and then if you don't have the right mentality and the right skill set in the organization come to build products, then so thing is approval process as well you need to go through many committees Sarah when I was working Credit Suisse or I launched one product. And I need to receive signatures from 14 committees, one for Wright, took me two years. So, takes takes time to do things and old things, I think, I think a good way to measure perhaps the speed with which you can launch new products is based on a simple question Can an engineer, make a decision and actually ship something. And that's what we started to see changing in financial services where there were a huge number of engineers and product people that were trying to launch net new products, and ultimately that was really our early hook which is just build tools for engineers and let them scale. And, and then you see certain organizations mostly startups can do that really quickly and the big banks require 14 approvals, when we discuss this bigger topic with people from traditional banks is a aha but regulation. And as you get bigger, the more regulation, and you have to do things in a traditional way, and new banks such as ourselves Starling bank have to adhere to exactly the same regulations of the big banks, the standards the same approval processes have to be up to scratch, we have to have various committees, do but products live the differences is our processes are fit for purpose, and the people in the organization are passionate about actually delivery. And we're all driven to change financial service for the better. And that's the big difference. Except I feel like I'm coming from there from an American perspective so maybe I'm maybe it's not so germane to Europe but in the US, we had a big scandal with this company called Robinhood which announced a checking account then have to announce it like 24 hours later, we were just talking backstage about cash app which is an vice square. And that's making huge amounts of revenue we just learned today from Bitcoin and like that just doesn't feel as real as a big old fashioned bang, does it.
Someone: I think it does. And so if you look at the cash out numbers they released some numbers relatively recently they make some money off a Bitcoin 150 million dollars. That's an accounting reason they have to count it they wouldn't counted as revenue if they weren't forced to buy the regulator's, would you actually should look at is the real revenue that they make which is 150 million plus per quarter, which is pretty crazy. And I know I mean, you're seeing FinTech companies being able to launch and scale incredibly quickly and actually build highly profitable businesses.
Someone: Financial Services a highly profitable industry generally that is delivered by really high cost. So, walking into a bank branch and talking to a person that has cost, there's a person there you have to have a bank branch, there's a great deal of paperwork that goes on behind the scenes. And the reason that FinTech can long term be incredibly profitable is because they're taking an industry which really has very few costs you have to have capital and then you have to have software and putting those two together and then delivering us just capital and software, instead of putting, you know, hundreds or thousands or hundreds of thousands of people in the middle of it, and. And so ultimately long term FinTech is highly profitable you can see companies that lunch, and in four years hit 35 countries, and these kinds of models are very sustainable. I just give you a few a few now most of all like you know scale for example will help you know 9 million customers Selina will have only 500 people in customer support right. If you take in a similar bank with a 9 million customers, right, they'll probably have 5000 people in the customer support right and then you do the same scale for for compliance as well because our systems are highly automated it's all based on models, right on engineers, data scientists building models to predict you know certain things with accuracy, but don't need to run like you know thousands and thousands people in compliance, again it's effectively you compete with banks on the on the course base, because ultimately everyone will be forced to decrease pricing, but if your costs basis high, then they just can't compete. But the difference is organizations in the FinTech new bank world are software engineering lead. I'm a data scientist has been a long career in banking, but technology was, you know, somewhere in the back room it was something that was supporting in this new industry puts technology where it belongs, actually making the decisions, and making sure we deliver the absolute best technology to solve the most important problems in people's lives and money's up there, right at the top. So, since you brought up technology and since we're we've really debunked this idea that cash is dead let's continue on the debunking in this grand vision world in FinTech that you've laid out, is there any role for blockchain.
Someone: Government, you can see that role is bigger so there is a space for everything. Exactly, and Washington solves many problems, I think FinTech has many problems perhaps blockchain can solve some FinTech problems and blockchain consult many other problems. The important thing to note though is that the success of FinTech is not predicated on the success of crypto are predicated on the success of blockchain there's a different industries. I think one of the points that Anne touched on just a moment ago is this concept of kind of delivering consumers better products, and ultimately when you look at FinTech, that is that is ultimately the net effect. One of the core theses behind plaid is that we want to increase the quality and availability of products delivered to consumers, that's helping people live better financial lives. And so as we see this huge boom in FinTech products banks trying to launched in tech products new banks existing even these non bank applications starting to launch being light products. And what that means is more availability. That means that consumers have more access and it means that for any one of those apps to win, they have to compete. And does the consumer wins because the rates go down the quality of product goes up the availability goes up, and that's great for consumers that's that's ultimately where this whole thing needs to lead. Yeah, I just wrote about again in the US we've seen a massive increase in personal loans which doesn't seem like an obvious big win, but it is because the old banks never used to give out loans because they made much more money issuing credit cards, and so now you get to borrow money for less, and that is not actually a deal that was driven by fin techs coming into the market and saying, we will lend you money for much less than it costs to hold a credit card people have made money that way, on the internet. So historically used to walk to a bank branch. Now you can type in I need a $5,000 loan in the US, you'll see Lending Club, but you'll also see 100 Lending Club loans, who are all competing for you based on the availability of the service the timing the speed, the price. And that's good, But the, the problem we had for many many years was because the regulation. It is very very difficult for new entrants to enter the market. And that regulation was protecting consumers and small businesses was basically holding prices at an unfair level and supporting practices that treated customers unfairly. Now, in the UK, they've got new regulation now to allow new banks to be authorized. And that is why you have new banks coming to market that actually can compete and give customers better service, and your neck you're doing this, you get to more or less, pick your regulator right you get to get licensed in one country and then passport that across to solve a simple, but you. How do you view the evolution of regulation it's a becoming a regulators, becoming more open to this kind of technology led organization than they used to be. Yeah, definitely. So, what I see personally right across in many countries are before the theme of regulators for risk reduction right now they actually have two themes risk reduction, and competition right, which is good for FinTech that you see that internationally.
Someone: And, I mean, you think globally FinTech has to consider regulation in every market that they're in, and in every market it's massively different. So we're now live in a handful of markets across the US in North America and Europe and in Europe, there's a lot more clarity. That's great. In the US, there's a lot less clarity there's, there's no banking charters being issued 4578 years. And so, it is important to continue to focus on the relevant regulations in each country, but realize that that means that the products and the backend of those products looks vastly different in each of these geographies at the front ends for consumers can look similar. It just requires a lot of work from the FinTech companies to make it happen. So what's the most advanced country in the world for consumer financial services, UK, China some now uk uk.
Someone: Just because the regulator in the UK saw the opportunity. So the couple of things happened in in Paolo festival Payment Services directive. In Europe, gay rights the first iteration of money licenses which gave rise to a lot of businesses in the UK, then you have the, the, the second wave which is the new banks. Yeah, we all look at China we are very very it's, it's an exciting place.
Someone: And the question is, how do those two worlds coexist. Mike, are we going to be all of a sudden wake up overnight and realize that you know Europe in the UK is living in the dark ages compared to what people are experiencing in other parts of the world. Yeah, we are, we are experiencing a great freedom to do the right thing for customers in the UK at present. The question is will we be left behind in the technology rates. The difficulty. As with all regulation in technology is that regulations are written for the technology that exists now, and maybe the technology that exists next year yet regulations live almost indefinitely. And so, so the difficulty is the pace of FinTech innovation as fast as the market is growing and changing, and no regulation can fully keep up, but certainly the UK is doing a really good job of pushing out.
Someone: Okay, you have one reason people to move to the UK which is financial regulation, every other reason I think you need to leave. Zach, Nick, and thank you very much. Thank you.
Someone: All right, here we go, everyone. Welcome to web summit, 2019 pitch final powered by Siemens who is excited for this. Put your hands together Yeah.
Someone: Over the last two days, 135 of the top startups here web summit, have been contending for the pitch trophy pitching their company across our pitch stages in the group rounds quarterfinals, and here last night at center stage for the semi finals. We are now down to the last three. Each startup will now pitch for three minutes, followed by three minutes, q&a from our judging panel. And the winner will be announced right here on center stage at 4:35pm so stick around to find out who wins. So before I go any further before I bring them all out, I'd like to introduce our esteemed panel of judges, so please give a warm welcome to Mada Getty co founder of branch.
Someone: Bradley Twohig Gardner lightspeed Venture Partners and Tony Cipolla partner at Highland Europe.
Someone: All right, for the final of our four judges. It will be you, the audience, you can vote for your favorite startup via the web summit app using slider and your votes will account for 25% of the final vote. So after all the pitches are finished, you can vote by clicking on your profile in the top left corner of the screen.
Someone: From there you will see an option called pitch final, which is where you will submit your vote. Voting will remain open for 15 minutes after we finish. And if you want to see your favorite start when police do get involved alright alright let's kick it off. Here we go. First up is Nutrix we're making glucose monitoring for diabetes patients in visible, non invasive way. Please welcome to the stage, Nutrix and founder, Maria Hahn,
Someone: welcome. It's really amazing to be here. Some of you probably wonder what happened to my hand. I arrived in Lisbon a few days before because I wanted to enjoy surfing. Fortunately I had an accident. And I ended up in the hospital here. And when I was in the hospital, I started to talk with my doctor about web summit, and our product. And he said, You will change medicine. So today I would like to talk with you, how we add Nutrix will change, medicine, with biosensors siding with the high tech nano sensor for the future of glucose monitoring. So, we have the nano sensor that we are placing on the roof. It's like a sticker. And we can monitor the glucose from the saliva. And then we are sending this information to the external up. This is just the first application for the sensor. We start with the glucose, but there is much more information that we can detect from the saliva. So it's very innovative and we start with this, because there is a huge number of diabetes patients. So we have 425 million people today with diabetes. It's one in 11, and this number we grow to 625, mostly in developing markets.
Someone: That's why we need more innovative solutions. We need the high end technology like biosensors that are much cheaper to produce to give the solution to the patients.
Someone: So as you can see, we are non invasive patient friendly and invisible. We also monitor what the patient is eating, which provides the information for the artificial pancreas algorithm.
Someone: We started as an MIT bootcamp together we need him, and our team comprised also of two nanotech sensors engineer but Sally and the Amish.
Someone: And as I said, it's only the beginning. So we can monitor, much more in the future, and we can react quicker quicker so we know what's going on in our body. And we prevent not cure. Thank you.
Someone: Fantastic. Maria, judges, with three minutes for questions.
Someone: First of all amazing I want one. I want to know what I'm eating. But the biggest question I have for you is, who is your buyer, and how are you going to charge this. What's your revenue model, are you selling this to doctors patients. So, basically, today, then sensors for the glucose monitoring. I only
Someone: knew they are paid by them, insurance, only for the type one diabetes patients. So the type two cannot really afford the systems that are at the market. So we are targeting both, we are targeting the insurance, and we are also targeting the type two diabetes patient, which are active and would like to know also. Well, how is the level of glucose, so they can really monitor better also they have it.
Someone: What's your like how much does it cost to make a sensor and how much do you charge, what's your margin. So today, we are in the development phase.
Someone: But we can say that we are 50% cheaper than the sensors that are today in the market.
Someone: Generally speaking, like how close are you to like an accuracy, to the existing solutions like how how effective are you at measuring glucose with both false positives and false negatives like what is the actual performance is like. So, there is a very strong correlation between the glucose in the blood, and the glucose in the saliva. And in terms of our sensor. We have them gold nano particles that are detecting the information in a precise manner.
Someone: Does your solution require FDA approval or Yes, this is a class to medical device. Okay. And how long does that process take you to go through that, like where are you and kind of the trialing. Yes. So, this is an SI presented a very innovative new way of treatment. So we really think about the change in the medicine. So it's not an immediate solution. I would say it will take three to five years to get the product to the market.
Someone: And what's the biggest problem, you think you still need to solve. To get there, and what you're doing for that.
Someone: Well we came to web summit, because we need the funding that precede funding to really start with the prototype. And this is what we wish to get.
Someone: And we really have a big vision to go ahead with the sensor. And there is everything available today. So we really have a great idea, we have Greg rate partners in Switzerland, with the innovation, technology, lab, and also with the children hospital Bassil. So, yeah, we really wish that being here today at the main stage, and also pitching the many potential. Patients will help us.
Someone: Awesome. Thank you, Maria rather applause Thank you so much, great start.
Someone: All right, our second finalist is called Be right back. The world's first travel subscription service. So pitching for them today is co founder and CEO, Gregory Geny.
Someone: Good afternoon, everyone. My name is Gregory Geny I'm the co founder and CEO of BeRightBack, the world's first travel subscription service. And let me start off by telling you a little story. I did a lot of traveling in my 20s and early 30s, and this is the process I went through every single time. But if you think about travel. The only thing that I care about as a customer is going on my trip, and sharing my experiences. But the reality is that it takes 10 hours to research and book, we can break, usually spread across a number of weeks. And this research process has been carved into multiple billion dollar industries, with brands competing for my attention. And once I'm engaging with all these brands and trying to figure out where to go and where to stay flight prices are rising. And this is preventing people from traveling. So that's where brb comes in. By taking the entire purchase journey, out of the equation, and shorten it down to one simple question. When do you want to go. And that subscription model is incredibly simple. You pay 50 pounds a month for that you get three trips per year flights and hotels included, and each destination is a surprise to deliver greater sense of adventure. And this is how it works. You create your account and set your travel preferences. You choose your plan, and you create your trip in less than 60 seconds, and one month before travel we send you a postcard to reveal your destination, with a personal note from us and recommendations.
Someone: So you go away with brb and have an amazing trip. And here's the thing with an amazing experience. You want to do it again straight away. And with brb you can adjust that. In less than 60 seconds. The minute you get home. So we've turned something quite painful into the most convenient and exciting lifestyle brand for travelers, which has real traction. We've already sent customers to 50 destinations across Europe, and on track to deliver 65,000 trips over the next three years, and destruction has led to press across some of the leading media publications in the world, and press is great, but what really matters to us is that our customers love us with 97% of them rating their experiences excellent operate. And not only do they love us. They are loyal to, with an average churn rate of 3% for customers taking two or more break with VOB. This is something the market hasn't seen before. But we're not stopping there on the supply side we are flipping the entire model Donie said. Gone are the days of hotels marketing their rooms to random distribution channels with no guarantee on occupancy VOB feels hotels. We've got guaranteed customers traveling with us, and we have complete capacity of travel sourcing we select the destination and the hotel, which means we can leverage our buying power to negotiate better margins by guaranteeing higher occupancy and pass the savings to the customer so they have a much better experience. And over time, we know exactly what experiences to sell, and when to sell them. For example, offering you a romantic dinner for two because we know from your Facebook data that you're traveling on your wedding anniversary, or concert tickets, because we know that your favorite band is playing in that city that week and we get that from is 45 data. And all of this is disrupting a 63 billion pound industry in the UK alone. And we're really excited because all the key leaders are pointing in the right direction, huge market, robust growth and Predictable Revenue but what really excites us is that our customers love us. And this is the Tim behind the business which was set up by Alex my co founder and myself we have over 15 years combined experience in travel, and I've personally spent the last 15 years accelerating the growth of startups, including 10 years in the travel space. So we'd be right back. And we the most exciting lifestyle brand for travelers. Thank you.
Someone: Fantastic. Judges questions for brb.
Someone: So, you said the target gross margin is 30%. Where are you now and how you're going to get to 30. That's a great question. So, in our first year Curran margins 15%, and that's primarily because we've been sourcing through third parties in the UK need to be at all protected to be able to package flights and hotels. We are currently going through yet or protection wants a lot in the next three to four months will be able to achieve 25 to 30% gross margin on the core product, not including any ancillary revenue products like transfer and experiences and destination. And how many customers do you have right now, as we've got 1000 travelers so far we launched about 10 months ago. And we plan to double the Mrs we doing about 45,000 pounds of monthly recurring revenue and we'll do about 90 k by the end of March. And what's your customer user cost, what's your CAC yes so our cost of acquisition is 50 pounds per customer and our lifetime value is 240 pounds we predicting a customer staying with us for roughly about two years, which is roughly about six trips. And that's prior to launching any tiered pricing so we currently have a single price plan.
Someone: And, and your customers, you're giving them three trips a year and 600 pounds is the. How do you ensure like quality of travel at 200 pounds for an entire trip because that's actually a pretty low price point for exactly yeah so I think what's very unique about what we doing is, we fit to be buying group travel so was, you know, customers that traveling by themselves, we can actually grip customers. So that's the data piece I think there's two parts to the business that are interesting. And the data and insight part, we can take the travel preferences of our customers who stated preferences where they want to go what airport airport they want to fly from, but actually we can let you additional data points, Facebook data, Instagram, to really build an understanding of who they are as a customer. So you might be into the art, and you might like going out birding maybe a great place for you because we can send you to do great street art tours during the day. And there's amazing nightlife. So we can build an amazing man use machine learning to do this and group customers and clusters and then by effectively group travel so whilst they're traveling by themselves. We can effectively leverage that by Depop Byton power and pass the setting up to the customer. So if you're a hotel you, and you've got effectively trying to sell your room through Ranger distribution channels, you've got no guarantee on occupancy. We could go to your hotel Leah and say we've got 100 customers this weekend. Do you want to have them and if you want to have them. What is the best rates, you can give us and we can therefore book amazing hotels and pass that to the customer.
Someone: How many customers would you need to get to to provide that type of flexibility with multiple locations and kind of at the rate that you're talking about matching preferences, what's, what's interesting is we can reflects the model and how we see fit so we don't have to do that across you know the BORT, we can start picking destinations. What's really exciting for us is to start tapping into what I would call secondary destinations in Europe. So, you know, we know that Olga tourism is a real thing places like Barcelona 32 million tourists last year. What we want to do is provide really authentic experiences in places that, you know, maybe accommodation prices are a little bit lower, and therefore we can start tapping into the sexy Scally is not as free the problem in the early days we could hack it.
Someone: Great. Okay, give it up, be right back. Thank you very much Gregory.
Someone: All right, our third and final startup of pitch 2019 is a company called banjo Robinson, they want to inspire a love of learning reading and writing about the world. Please give a warm welcome to the founder and CEO, Kate Boyle.
Someone: Hello.
Someone: So when I was growing up, my dad would write letters and leave them around the house for me to find. And I loved them so much so that as an adult, I started writing to my friends children.
Someone: I sent them from a globe trotting cat and I signed them off with a poor friend, and children started writing back to the cat.
Someone: So, these are children that are reluctant readers and writers and I was wondering why well. I think it's because children are wired for connection, and they love magic and make believe. And I realized there was an opportunity here to fundamentally transform the way that we teach children to read and write.
Someone: To turn the process into a game.
Someone: And that's what we're doing at banjo Robinson so banjo Robinson is a magical globe trotting cat and he sends proper paper post real personalized letters and creative activities to children twice a month from exciting places around the world, like the Taj Mahal and the Great Wall of China, Indonesia and Iceland, and children right back to Banjo and they leave their replies underneath the sofa at night for overnight collection by him or his friends. And then it's a bit like the 230 in the morning those replies will have magically disappeared. But banjo can reply at scale to the questions that they might have asked him.
Someone: We've taken the joy of writing to Father Christmas. And that's the quality time with parent and child away from screens. And we've combined it with a subscription business model, which allows us to publish personalized children's literature twice a month, every month. We're working with award winning Best Selling children's authors, but we're not printing 40,000 units of stock and developing product over a year with zero inventory Justin time fulfillment with a positive cash conversion cycle.
Someone: We're at the nexus of three fast growth markets, and our advisors are world leaders in everything from entertainment and Ed Tech to personalized print and children's IP and children love banjo. So in our product trial with Mumsnet 90% of them, age five to eight rip back to him. And it's a double buyer incentive because parents are just as excited. It was the highest level of parental engagement that moms that have ever seen on a product trial. And we're impacting not only the home learning environment, but classrooms to even though we're not marketing to teachers and abroad, in Asia, Europe and South America, banjos letters are beginning to teach children English.
Someone: But banjo isn't just a character that children see on TV he becomes very quickly the actual friend they really care about him. And so that's why we're not just a subscription business. We're building a brand, a University of banjo Robinson, with super exciting content in the pipeline digital content TVs toys and educational merchandise.
Someone: And we're super excited to announce this evening that we've just closed a seven figure pre seed investment round with our dream lead investors, sesame collab plus sesame. We want to follow in the footsteps of Sesame Street and its creators Sesame Workshop. And so we're banjo Robinson we're on a mission to transform the way all children everywhere learn to read, write and understand their world. We hope you'll join us. Thank you.
Someone: Before you guys get to the birth watching Do you know that you're competing with the Cookie Monster for deals now
Someone: with Cookie Monster. Okay, great. Any questions for Kate, I'm just gonna say that my inner child squeaks and squealed to seeing your pitch.
Someone: It was really awesome tell us a little bit about your business model I know you're building a brand but what's your near term business model the longer term business model. Absolutely. So at the moment it's subscriptions. But there's so many things we can do with this you know where the sort of nexus of English language learning we can do.
Someone: Foreign coalition franchises, we can obviously unbundle the products and sell everything from apparel, for example, I would really like to do some pajamas that say the cat's pajamas on everything from that to Hello Kitty type literacy stickers paper pens, how much those subscriptions varies from five to eight pounds a month depending on how long you sign up for.
Someone: Yeah, and you can sign up for a monthly subscription or 12 months, and your gift. And what's your cost per acquisition per user.
Someone: It's ranges for retargeting it's as low as eight pounds for cold packets.
Someone: We've model 25 but we're seeing a range really from 12 to 15 drover and the LTV is 52 so we've hit a nice sweet spot of CPA LTV, and the contribution margin, or contribution margins on the product for the subscription like what is the gross margin contribution margin for the business look like. It depends on what we're printing so at 5000 customers we have margins of 75%. But the real win here is expanding the brand and as I said banjo is more than just a character that people see on TV. He is someone that does Skype their grandmother and and call really excitedly to say that accounts writing to them. And that kind of morality means that. Firstly we can grow organically rather than just buying customers and secondly, we can make money through other avenues not just much advice, how many of your customers are how many of your customers come through organic channels right now. It's a good question we've just rebranded and launched a new website so with our MVP, it was a split of 7525 paid. But what we're looking to do is increase the viral coefficient. By creating some collectibles stuff for the both the current product but also the product that children will age into which we currently cover literacy geography culture cuisine music around the world. And what we want to do is go into history so that banjo has a great great great great granddad he's an Egyptian cat and a Roman cat and they send Time Capsules about the future to older children. So, a few different avenues, we can go. So as soon as you start working with children, there's huge privacy issues and security issues around that, and particularly once you start working also with partners on the other side and you're in the middle of a lot of probably quite sensitive and private data, how do you handle that. We've taken advice from super awesome, who are world leaders and, and charts at Tech safety. We've done their kid aware program and we take as little data as we can possibly get away with to create a customized letter for children but we only take data from the parents so you can buy it as a gift but the parent of the child will manage that subscription, and they will be the only ones with access to that data, we delete all data that's no longer current or needed by the business and only people who have a need for that data have access to it. So we're very sensitive to it and doing all the things that Cooper and GDPR recommend. And who's your team. Last question. We have a great team so we have a couple of different people who have successful exits under their belt we have john Fido who took the tough Mada brand International.
Someone: We have hired for culture fit, as well as expertise. So, some of the team members I've known for 30 years and worked with before we've traveled together. But we're supported not just by our advisors and board members, but by the wider TechStars network so we're, we're sort of hooked into a really supportive framework around problems that we haven't yet faced that other people have so great. All right round of applause for Kate and banjo Robinson Thank you very much. All right, center stage audience. Quick reminder now that it's your time to have the say, of who you think will be the winner of pitch 2019, so we're gonna have a quick chat with their judges to gauge their thoughts. Oh, and then conclude this session where we think Tony, which one do we like the best so far. There's three great companies there. Okay. But if you have to pick one, if I'm saying write a check right now, who's getting the check. Nutrix great. Interesting. Brad, what do you think it's between Nutrix and banjo Robinson for me. Great. Okay, I'm a partner the fun, cool X Factor The X Factor. Check goes to Nutrix my own my own personal Angel money and goes to banjo. Right. Awesome. Alright, the judges scores will now be collected and counted as will be your audience slide Oh vote and the winner of pitch web summit 2019 will be announced here on center stage at 425. Thank you all very much. and we'll see you all later. Thank you.
Someone: CNN Porsche.
Someone: Belinda.
Someone: Please welcome to the stage, co host of rise and co founder of startups Hong Kong, Casey Lau,
Someone: no time for lunch, not for me hopefully for some of you. All right. So, good afternoon everyone for this segment here, these are the growth stage startup pitches that we believe will be the startups that everyone will be talking about in 2020 and beyond. Judging by their backers dozens of the world's leading startup investors also think so, their ideas and the stories behind the rapidly growing companies are just simply fantastic. So let's get started. Alright. Our first speaker speaker is Maria raga, the CEO of Depop. Since being promoted to the position in 2016 from VP of operations. She has presided over every element of the business from finance and engineering to marketing and product. Since, Maria took over as CEO, she's raised close to 100 million dollars in funding, which has helped to grow, and nurture the community on Depop. Now, 16, million users. Let's give Maria, a warm welcome.
Someone: So what is Depop. If you were to ask any 15 year old. In the UK, that would say is the coolest and most fun way to shop. If you ask me, who's clearly not a 15 year old. I will tell you that Depop is the most. Sorry. The Depop is a fashion resale marketplace. And there's two things that makes the pub different. First, we're focused on the youth of today. 90% of our users are under the age of 26, we call them, Jane sees, and we focus on them because not only they will determine the future of fashion, but also because by next year, they will be the largest consumer group.
Someone: And secondly, we're not just an ecommerce platform. Depop is a community, a community of 16 million users who share engage and inspire one another.
Someone: It's a community of users that are currently not being served by the fashion industry, an industry that sets the trends from the top is hard to break into an ease and sustain unsustainable is wasteful. So what is the opportunity to serve their needs.
Someone: First, we allow our users to shop to set up a shop in minutes, and find an audience. And by doing that, we're allowing millions of young entrepreneurs to build their brand and make money by doing what they love. And some of them, they're making six figures a year. As a result, we're putting the power of trendsetting back into the hands of the young creative individuals. These individuals are our community. And everything we do is about them from product development to marketing campaigns. We know that if they succeed, we succeed. And lastly, because we are resale platform.
Someone: By virtue of existing existing we're extending the lives of millions on garments, and we know this is very important for our community. Right now, if you go on to debug, which I highly recommend you will find a vast inventory that is unique, and includes one of a kind vintage rework creation and street where our community of young creative entrepreneurs, is reducing waste, and he's making resale. Cool.
Someone: So what's next for Depop.
Someone: We recently raised $62 million to invest in our future. We're focused in the US, and in the UK, but we want to expand and go global. And we'll do that by continuing to build a platform that allows our users to build real businesses and give them the tools they need to grow.
Someone: We believe that similar to how Spotify transform music, and how Airbnb is transforming hospitality.
Someone: We believe that by empowering our community. We can transform fashion. Thank you very much.
Someone: Alright, our next company is called genome, medical, who are using telemedicine to integrate genomic medicine into everyday healthcare speaking today is co founder and CEO, Lisa, Alderson.
Someone: Thank you.
Someone: To nomics is one of the most exciting advancements in the field of medicine. I founded genome medical to democratize access to genomic based care for patients everywhere.
Someone: Today I want to take you on a brief journey into the future of health care.
Someone: We have 20,000 genes in the human genome.
Someone: This is our life code. It's one of the most important factors that affects our health.
Someone: Yet, We've never had access to this information previously, that's changing within about three to five years the vast majority of patients that are receiving cancer care will receive genomic based medicine to better inform that care, and the vast majority of the population at large within about 15 years will be sequenced as part of routine medical practice.
Someone: We are in a genomic technology revolution, being driven by the science, the medicine and reduce cost of clinical care.
Someone: We use genomics for prevention, diagnosis, and treatment.
Someone: Approximately one out of every six individuals has a gene that could affect their clinical care.
Someone: This is what's reshaping the future of health care about 80% of us have a pharmacogenomics factor that would affect our response to drugs will look back on today and think how did we possibly diagnose patients, and select treatment without the benefit of our molecular makeup.
Someone: Mostly most patients in need of genetics are not receiving access today. That's what happened with this young mom before she came to genome medical.
Someone: We have a global shortage of genetic specialists to manage the current medical needs, much less what is coming.
Someone: genome medical is working to change this. We are a tele genomics company. We deliver education clinical support and access to specialists via online virtual care.
Someone: We have two pillars of strength. First, we're building the largest network of clinical genetics expertise. And second, we're investing in a technology platform that allows us to reach many more patients, and more efficiently, our clinical team is deeply experienced across six different specialty areas. We provide online scheduling and next day appointments with leading medical geneticists genetic counselors and other specialists in this field.
Someone: Through our technology platform we provide education and assessment for patients. We then find high risk cancer, high risk cardiovascular patients needing medication management, and we put them on a specialty care pathway, designed to meet their needs, we're enabling a world where our genomic information is readily accessible and utilized throughout the lifelong journey.
Someone: We're backed by some of the leaders in healthcare and technology. We see patients directly. And we also partner with hospitals and health systems to enable easier access to the future of healthcare. Together, we can Shepherd in a new era of genomic based medicine. We can change lives. We can save lives. Thank you.
Someone: Alright, our next breakout speaker is Susan Kuo, Susan is the CEO and co founder of singular, a marketing intelligence platform that unifies marketing analytics.
Someone: Giving marketers actionable insights from previously siloed data today Susan is going to tell us singular story. So please put your hands together for Susan.
Someone: Good afternoon everyone. Very excited to be here today. Telling you specifically a bit of the story and the journey as to how singular became a marketing intelligence platform.
Someone: Now the story really all started about five years ago, myself and my two co founders were all part of the executive team at ohne although we were a very unique company in both the data compression app but also on the b2b side a marketing intelligence, a market intelligence solution. That was effectively working with all the largest performance marketers, in the world with the likes of Uber, Amazon Expedia, you name it, but it was really a novel where the idea of singular was born, because as we were working with some largest performance marketers in the space. We saw how incredibly fragmented and how big of a challenge of the landscape that we really existed back then, and still does today. And what is it that we're talking about here. It is effectively what we call the ugly truth of the marketing stacks. Except if any of you are actually familiar with the loom escapes out there, you probably agree with me that this is actually a pretty version of the ugly truth. But the point here is that today, marketing teams specifically CMOS have to work with over 52 vendors, on average, to power their marketing stack. When you look at it at that macro level, it's already overwhelming, but when you really zero in, what does this really mean that data connectivity and really visibility into ROI measurement is very very hard to extract. We're talking at any given time, a CMO has to understand across their marketing teams data from their pay channel efforts analytics attribution solutions, they're lifecycle CRM platforms, down to cdp's. So what does this really ultimately mean for marketers.
Someone: Well, what we do here. Sorry about that. Little Mix up in the slide with singular effectively is positioned more is solving that unique challenge which is you know unifying siloed data. Applying marketing attribution, and exposing actionable insights for advertisers to scale and grow their businesses.
Someone: Today, we work with 60% of the world's largest performance marketers across verticals across different regions and we're collectively processing and analyzing over $10 billion in ad spend.
Someone: Now, the journey as a marketing intelligence platform is a unique one that I really feel is where the next few years of the company is really headed towards and what I'm personally really excited about. If you think about it, the first three years of the business was really focused on the data centralization and the standardization of the data itself. I talked about the fragmentation at existed across the different vendors in the ecosystem, but specifically connecting and adjusting those data across the siloed players are in itself, the first mission and milestone of the company. Then we're really talking about the standardization the data governance really applying a standard schema across what the data that you're extracting from a certain point solution and being able to marry that data to the other side of the equation, that in itself is really where we see as the fundamental layer to what we're doing.
Someone: Now, in terms of where we're headed and where the next couple of years in the business it's really about growing that data aperture to cross device cross platform. And then applying what we call the activation layer on top of it now that you have your data in one place what you can do to actually activate and push this data across the the other solution players. And last but not least, the insights and predictive layer of which is where personally very excited about where the company's headed. Thank you very much time for your time today.
Someone: Alright, our next companies a European leader in cloud based talent management and learning software, backed by 20 years experience and 100 million euro investment in the enterprise software market john Stefan Arcis became one of the co founders of talent soft in 2007. Let's get him on stage to tell us more.
Someone: Hello everybody. Talent soft is today, the largest European software company dedicated to HR and talent management.
Someone: So, really, in the last 10 years, what really happened is that.
Someone: Sorry about that.
Someone: It really came from a very simple idea to take employees and manage them exactly as a customer, as a consumer to give to every people at work. A very personalized experience, like a consumer.
Someone: And so today talent soft is 100 million euro organization with 10 million users, all over the globe.
Someone: So what I really appreciate what I really enjoyed this last decade, is that HR became so strategic.
Someone: You remember 10 years ago, HR was something that was maybe seen as boring. And today it is on every agenda of key managers and CEOs.
Someone: Let me tell you why. In fact, let me give you some examples of what our customers are asking today. First.