
Up next, we have two companies whose brands and strategy have stood the test of time while they transition into a fully digital marketplace. They are each synonymous with leadership in their fields, fields including home, where retail, and banking. Our next speakers are at the forefront of driving their company's plans to stay ahead of the curve. So please welcome to the stage, in conversation with Cheng Lei of CGTN Europe, Kristin Lemkau off of JPMorgan Chase and IKEA's Barbara Martin Coppola.
Hello, everyone. I'm Cheng Lei. This is my first Web Summit, and I can't tell you how proud I am to be part of such agenda diverse summit. Unlike other Summits, this has 46% female participation rate. We've heard from dozens and dozens of female entrepreneurs, and with me are two excellent rock star female leaders. So, to my right, immediate right, I have Kristin Lemkau, who is the Chief Marketing Officer for JPMorgan Chase, the US's largest bank, who oversees a $5 billion marketing budget. And then to her right, we've got Barbara Martin Coppola, the Chief Digital Officer of IKEA. So let's start this chat by talking about the history of these two legacy, very well known brands around the world. I'm going to pose the question to you both because when I looked at the history of IKEA and JPMorgan Chase, they have between them almost 300 years of history, and we're now in this digital era, where many of you startup entrepreneurs, you know, your companies are probably less than five years old. So how do you stay relevant in this era? How about you first, Kristen?
You stay relevant by ensuring that you're in touch with your consumer. So we're a 200 year old company, we just had a record quarter. It was our fourth record quarter in less than three years. But I think the danger of big companies is that there's always the temptation to slow down. Clock speed matters. And it's important to ensure you're super clear about decision making because that'll be the piece that I think gets everybody slower. And so when we start every meeting, I'm always super clear, who owns the decision, who's giving inputs and who has veto power. And that question alone makes it much clearer that you're driving an outcome to that meeting. And I think the other big danger is the hippo, the highly paid personal opinion of somebody who looks absolutely like nothing like your customer base, who might have a millenial kid at home who's trying to weigh in. But if you're clear about who owns the decision, it avoids the hippo.
Great. So clarity, speed, and avoiding the hippo. Barbara?
Well, I think companies need to constantly evolve and innovate to stay ahead of the curve. And they need to do that at a speed that is faster or equal than the rate of change in the world. Now, as the rate of change is accelerating, the digital is really, really important to be extremely focused in creating value for the consumer. And doing that in a way that is positive for the planet and for societies at large. That said, I want to say that digital is actually a world of possibilities. And there's like a million things that we can do. Innovating on business model, actually thinking about new customers experiences, and better manage our companies inside. I'll give you two examples. One being a new business model, such as furniture as a service, Imagine being able to rent furniture and give it back, all powered through digital. How great would it be for individuals and for the planet because of less waste management. And then I'll talk about customer experience with this phygital world. Imagine physical and digital together, and how we can create incredible experiences. This is pretty much almost a white canvas. And I mean, the innovation will be amazing.
I love the examples. But wouldn't your revenues be heard with the furniture rental?
I think it's a new stream of revenue. It's actually diversifying. And there is a whole trend in society which is about sharing. And we have to listen to consumers and the trends to be able to adapt. 
Okay. So, Kristin, I know you're an aspiring writer. And you are in this, I guess, both finance and marketing. Both sides are being disrupted. So what are some of the new and bold things that you did in your industry that were shocking at the time.
I like to think it's not my job to shock. It's my job to drive business outcomes. But I can say the things that we have done that have gotten the most attention aren't necessarily the things I'm most proud of. We turned off all of our programmatic advertising when it was found on fake news sites. We brought it in house, we went from 400,000 websites to 4000 that we could manually check. That got a lot of attention. But to me, honestly, that was just good hygiene. The things that I'm most proud of are the things that aren't going to get headlines, which is having a functional tech stack, having a good CRM system, reimagining our marketing around machine learning, which I'm going to talk about this afternoon. Panda stage 1235 and not falling into the trap. I think that some CMOS do have becoming corporate famous and looking for Adweek headlines or gimmicks. It's okay to be a fast follower. It's okay to try to deeply understand your brand and not chase trends, you'll waste a lot of money and understand that sometimes it's just getting the basics right, that will be the most important thing.
Okay, so delivering real value. Barbara, both you and Kristen have talked about speed and velocity in this digital age. So how do you anticipate Digital Trends before they even become trends?
There's many different ways. First is the mega trends. So IKEA follows what is happening at big scale with humanity. People moving into your urban environments, the creation of mega cities, real estate prices going up and actually people as a real are living in smaller and smaller places. And also the feeling of alienation or solitude in in the big cities environments. So all of that is really important to actually adapt to human beings to people. The offer that we have for this type of living, the next level is all digital. This is getting data from different sources and combining it. And through artificial intelligence, we can actually predict a lot of what's going to happen. The more data we have, the more the algorithms are savvy, the more we can actually get the trends and adapt quickly through Casper and iteration of product so that we get it right as everything evolves. And the last thing that I would say is with a mindset of open innovation, IKEA works with a lot of people, a lot of trendsetters different companies. So it's co creation of trends to like the home furnishing environment and in trends, that sustainability trend, for instance, which is really important. So all of it, combined is what helps us predict.
And Kristin, you were telling me offline before that you think marketing is being disrupted at a faster pace than finance. I'm looking at you know, FinTech and looking at AI, big data analytics. What are the biggest disruptors in marketing?
I think it's what you just said. It's machine learning. And it's a I tell my team all the time, we're being disrupted twice in consumer payments and in banking and in marketing and marketing is being disrupted faster. As consumer behavior is changing. There was an interesting article in Forbes recently that said our CMOS going extinct and it said You know, there's cmo lifespan is about 43 months and dropping. There are a number of big brands that have had CMOS, well regarded CMOS step down or retire and not be replaced. But the most interesting part of the article was toward the bottom that said, it's not that CMOS aren't trying, it's that they literally cannot move fast enough to keep up with the trends that are AI driven and consumer driven.
So how do you both you know, win, attract, retain digital talent, with all these changes going on, and you need all these data scientists? 
Yeah
Barbara?
First, IKEA. It's the recognition that people are the most important asset for a company. And that actually is very important that combined with a mission of creating a better everyday life for the many people with a very strong agenda on people on planet positive actually attracts a lot of digital talent, including me, this is why I joined the IKEA coming from the tech industry and it's pretty Inviting meaning to what we do every day for the wider good. Lot of people like me are actually joining us. And if you like the agenda and you're inspired by a very human centric agenda, I think you should join us.
Great recruitment advertisement, Kristin.
I think it goes back to the Darwin quote, it's not the fastest of the species that survives, it's the most adaptable to change. When I first got my job, I went and spoke to a number of CMOS, who I really respected Linda Botha, GE, Antonio Lucio, who was at these at the time, he's now at Facebook, and Jeff Jones, who was the CMO of target who's now running h&r block, and Jeff gave me great advice. He said, You look for people who know what to do when they don't know what to do. And so I looked not necessarily for the skills and the expertise and the subject matter experts, even data scientists that's important, but you need people who can adapt because Today, it's a data scientist tomorrow. It's a robotics engineer. And it's somebody who can change and adapt and understand how consumer behavior is changing and adapt their own skill set.
So you avoid hiring people who just look good on paper.
You have to you have to hire people who actually will be able to figure it out, whatever it is.
Now, Barbara, you mentioned sustainability. We also want to look at the global social backdrop, we're seeing a lot of unrest. People are more concerned about inequality, about climate change, about gender diversity, than at any other time. So how do these legacy brands adapt to these changes?
Well, I think is the time for companies to actually move from customer centricity to people centricity, and actually have a positive impact on people society at large. And so IKEA is a very, very big activist in many different topics I'll give you one example, which is the sustainability agenda. The commitment here and it's not easy to do, but the commitment is to have by 2013, a climate positive IKEA. That means we will reduce the emissions overall, with all activities that I can buy 2030 all products sold at IKEA are going to be from recycled or renewed materials. Everything. It's big, but the commitment is there because it's the right thing to do. And there is only one sustainable way of doing business. So it's important to act now. And I hope that many companies around the world individuals, companies, organizations join us in this movement. We have to act now. But thank you
do you think easier for a private group to undertake that sort of long term commitment versus a publicly listed one like JPMorgan Chase. Kristin?
No, no, I think it's incumbent upon every company to
What about quarterly earnings, all those analysts who ask you what's happening
I don't think those things are in conflict in you, as I said, we just had a record quarter, but we've taken a stand on on a number of issues. And I think you have to do those things that are authentic to your business model. Because I think woke marketing is something consumers will snuff out, will be carbon neutral by 2030. We've taken a stand on cities, we've taken a stand on financial equality on helping people make the most of their money, you have to create products that live through your purpose. And I think, as Barbara said, it's important for every company to do that, and I think consumers are demanding it.
So how do you come across as authentic when JPMorgan Chase all those years of history, you know, the stigma of being Wall Street bank, how do you overcome that?
I think you have to stay authentic to who you are. It starts with the purpose of trying to help people make the most of their money. But I think there's also a recognition that there are things our company can do that others can't because of our size. So we've made a big commitment to cities. We made a very large hundred million dollar commitment to the city of Detroit, working with the mayor. They're working with other cities that are based in Detroit like Quicken to see, can you help turn around a city that was dying? And now trying to adapt that model to other cities like New Orleans, and showing the financial equality is an important path to solving economic inequality?
In fact, you did a pretty famous campaign with American athletes. Was it not?
We did actually we did it was was it was a show actually that we had produced on our own called needing Joe. We didn't pay the athletes. The athletes it turns out really want to talk about their journey with money because a lot of them have run into trouble and even though we worried that it wouldn't feel authentic to a consumer because they're so wealthy. The journeys really did translate in how to understand the importance of longevity with your money.
And finally, I want to talk about the gains that you achieve when you have a gender neutral workplace and you get the best out of both genders. Barbara?
So I spend my career in the tech industry. It's a very gender unbalanced environment. And then I joined the IKEA. And to my surprise, I saw 49% of managers are women. And 54% of employees are women. I have witnessed the positive aspects first, with performance. Second, with collaboration, diversity of views, is just positive or way round. So My reflection is if there are companies that get to gender equality, why don't we set set the standard for actually all companies to get there. And I would love for this evolution to be trackable Year and Year, so that we can do the right thing for society. It is a human right. It is a human right. So I would encourage all of us to actually don't give up and get to what is right.
Kristin?
Applaud that answer. We are at 50% women on our operating Committee. The three biggest businesses in our consumer business are all run by women. Each of those businesses would be a fortune 500 company and its own right. So gender equality is driving business results for us. Our consumers are half women. You know, for me, I grew up in the finance industry, and it was not always this way I can remember sort of three distinct areas. There was initially this dragon lady era where there was one senior woman, and she would talk about how she took red eyes and, you know, never made her know, like games. Our husband was an idiot. And I'm like, Well, I'm not going to make it with that. And then there was this next era of the sort of habit, all women who came to work with a blowout and had the perfect holiday card with the kids that we all now know is a lie. And I thought, Well, I'm not going to make it with that. And I think now, it's not so much about gender neutrality, because gender for me is an important part of my identity. And I think leading authentically with your gender. Now where it's much more acceptable to be vulnerable to admit that you don't have it together that you're a hot mess that day that you're not prepared for a meeting because you were helping your kid with their Peru project. And it gives men permission, I think, to do the same thing. And I hope now it's the era of the sisterhood where women across in industries and across the company. There's enough of us now can look out for each other and help one another.
So no more
Thank you.
Death to the dragon ladies. 
For sure. 
It's a terrible stereotype. So, very quickly 30 seconds or less, how do you envision the future of homeware retail. Barbara?
The future is going to continue to be adaptable to individuals, but also positive collectively for communities is going to be a sustainable future with sustainable energy with sustainable products and happy lives. Happy, Happy communities. Hopefully we get right, the connection that we all crave for as human beings. That's the future.
And Kristin?
I agree with everything she just said. Sisterhood in action. It's about a personalized experience where the consumer is in charge. Business adapts to that.
Thank you so much for your inspirational and insightful words today, Barbara and Kristin, and thank you so much for a gender diverse summit. Thank you.