
It's great to have so many entrepreneurs here in the audience with us today. And when it comes to funding, you will probably agree that raising that first round is likely the most difficult. So we're about to welcome to the stage a group of the most influential seed stage investors in the world to discuss what's next for the next 12 months, and what it takes to raise that crucial first round. ClassPass, Twilio, Revolut, are just some of the companies that our next guests have invested in. So in conversation with Mike Butcher from TechCrunch, let's welcome to the stage the the co founder of LocalGlobe, Saul Klein, the co founder of Seedcamp, Reshma Sohoni, Fabrice Grinda from FJ Labs, and my boss, the CEO of Techstars, David Brown. 
Hello Lisbon.
Hello.
Hello Lisbon. 
Hello.
Hi everyone. 
Quiet this morning.
As, as you've just heard, my name is Mike Butcher from TechCrunch. I hope you're reading our our news daily. It's my honor to have a fantastically experienced panel today. And in 2019 there's never been any more money going into early stage startups than there is today. It's still as hot a space as it ever was. And these are the people who really give your first money in as they say. Let's start off with, let's start with you, Saul. Your, saw, what was happening in Silicon Valley. You are an entrepreneur yourself certainly in the the first dotcom boom and the wave. You were early at Skype as well. You became an investor. And you actually started some of the earliest funds in the UK with LocalGlobe. You were a co founder of Seedcamp. Are you satisfied with where things are now?
I mean, I think UK and Europe's come an incredibly long way in 15 20 years. When I started in the industry, 25 years ago, the largest ISP in the UK had 5000 subscribers. Now it's 12% of GDP in the UK. So I think that's pretty amazing. But I'm really more excited about the next 20 years and the fact that a lot of the great entrepreneurs are now not just in Silicon Valley, but are popping up all over the world. And I think, you know, we're on on the verge of a really, really exciting couple of decades.
So you co founded Seedcamp and Reshma, you were one of the first ND or CEO of of Seedcamp when it first emerged. I was there, in fact, when you first launched, back in, was it 07?
Yep.
Yeah. How, from your perspective? How is, how's things changed since those very earliest days? Where are they now? What are the what are the contrasts that you see has happened since then to now?
Yeah, I mean, I think the biggest thing has been what we envisioned has actually happened is, is as Saul kind of started with. You know, there's founders coming out of every corner of Europe and and not just building businesses, but global and world changing businesses. So you know, who would have thought Romania would be a hotspot, right? And I think we're seeing the virtuous cycle of that too, is is Daniel and and folks like Emi Gal who came out of Romania are reinvesting in the Romania ecosystem and it's really, you know, it's really booming. We've continued to invest there. And then across the central Eastern European region. I think that's probably one of the biggest surprises to me is the CEE and how powerful it's become and how far it's 
Central and Eastern Europe?
Correct. And, and, you know, absolutely again, same thing is I think that's an inspiration to whether you're in Latvia or Portugal or Spain or wherever you see these role models. And you see some incredible companies built built from there.
And in the same way that the the electric light bulb and radio wasn't necessarily invented by one person at one time, but people had the similar ideas at similar similar times across the globe, Techstars emerged as one of the earliest accelerators just around the time of Seedcamp and other accelerators. What about TechtSars, David? Boulder was very much one of one of the early pioneers. And you created this sort of more network effect where Y Combinator famously has stayed in Silicon Valley, you have gone international global with TechStars, London and Techstars, Berlin and Techstars in the US across the US. Did it work as far as you can tell?
So far so good. I think, you know, it's ironic, right? We started the TechStars in Boulder because we wanted to help our local community. We didn't believe that you needed to go to Silicon Valley and in order to start a business. We lived in Boulder. We wanted to enable other entrepreneurs to start businesses wherever they chose to to live. It turned out the model worked. As you mentioned, Y Combinator was around at that time. They were in Boston actually and relocated to Silicon
Do you think they made a mistake? Staying put?
Y Combinator is a wonderful program. And if you're in Silicon Valley, they have a very, very powerful network and I and I think it has worked for them. But we've managed to expand globally as you mentioned, and have accelerators in every part of the world. We have 50 of them now, not just in the United States where we started, but Canada, here in Europe, in Asia, in India, in Australia.
But one of the criticisms of accelerators is that not many big unicorns have come out of that Reshma and David, but I mean, you obviously there have been some bigger companies that have emerged from these. 
Yeah
these networks.
I mean, I'll say, for us, we determined that the specific model for accelerators didn't work for us, and our ability to or the way we want it to kind of deliver value into into our customer group, which is the founders. And I, you know, I'm not sure UiPath would have been attracted to us as an accelerator or some of the others. revolut was attracted to that and came in through our preseason. So we actually had to expand and so we added seed as well as pre seed. And our pre seed continues to function in a very similar model to kind of back in 2007, but we did change Quite a lot of things. And we I think we also have to because Europe is not Silicon Valley. And I think we wouldn't have been successful had we not adapted. And I think that's a lesson for any entrepreneur out there is you can't just copy you, you know, you have to adapt that.
That, well, speaking of copying Fabrice, you're a prolific entrepreneur, I don't know how many 10s and hundreds of investments you make every year. Do you? Do you? Are you tired of seeing clones amongst early stage companies?
Well, 70% of what I invest in, and we do invest 140 companies a year, or you are in the US, and by definition, they're new ideas. And so true business model innovation, business process innovation in Europe. It makes it to some extent, I actually understand the idea of like bringing in an idea that's proven elsewhere, because you're taking market risk. And so why take both that said, you have to adapt, right. You can't just be copy and piecing. It has to be real entrepreneurs doing it. That's why I don't love it when it's done by you know, close friends. factories of here. And then absolutely that that doesn't have like soul. I think the most amazing founders are the ones that are purpose driven and they see a problem they want to fix, and they go and fix it. And it doesn't matter if someone has seen the same problem the same time. I mean, I think you made the observation on the Light Ball. The problems that need to be fixed typically come up at the same time in many places. 
And you will you're very experienced investors, you've seen the market grow over the last 1015 years. What are the kind of bugbears that kind of slightly annoy you at the moment that still keep happening that the mistakes entrepreneurs keep making? I mean, Saul, for instance.
Look, I think you kind of have to make your own mistakes you can say to a friend, a colleague, as an investor, you can say to an entrepreneur, hey, you know, you may really want to think about doing a instead of doing be But, you know, sometimes people just have to make their own mistakes. I think the best entrepreneurs that I've worked with the ones that are really good listeners are open to new ideas, view their early investors like they would co founders or partners. And sort of understand that if you have the right investors, there's sort of a central part of your team, and will remain a central part of your team, you know, throughout your journey. And I think still entrepreneurs often have a very adversarial relationship or impression of what an investor relations
don't fight with your investors too. Reshma what would you say?
Yeah, I think we help in that journey in terms of once you raise money, we don't actually focus on that at all as much as you can celebrate it and been pressed and You know, TechCrunch articles, it very much quickly moves into Who Are you hiring? How do you really grow your team? What are the key roles you need to build for? And how do you delight users? How do you delight customers? Because you get those two things right with an inherently great product. And, you know, that's, that's just repeatable, and that's scalable. So I think there is just too much focus on probably money raising out there. And so we quickly you know, on boards were on with sort of Saul and their team as well. You quickly move on from that, and it's a lot about recruiting and and, and customers and making customers happy.
David, what are the mistakes entrepreneurs keep making as far as you know?
following the buzzwords, right, the number of companies that were chatbots AI ml, you know, I think, you know, just because you slap that onto your name or onto your URL extension doesn't mean that you're more investable, chase the customers figure out what problem exists in the world. And go solve it and stay out of the day to day trends.
Fabrice, you famously made a big kind of made a bit of a play about about the fact that you were going to be all like a digital nomad when you and he you've, we were chatting backstage and you say you have this sort of hybrid life where you do a lot of traveling as well as a lot of investing. Does that mean you're going to miss things?
You know to be in the flow of things? Well, actually, I'll say counterintuitive argument. I actually don't follow news. I don't read newspapers, I don't so you would argue by not following quote unquote, news. I should miss many more things. The reason I feel that it's okay is I take that time to think and reflect on the trends. I read 100 books a year. And also because we have a brand and my our brand that FJ Labs is we're marketplace ambassadors. And so if you're a marketplace entrepreneur, it doesn't matter if you're b2b or CDC or b2b, etc, etc. We are a real position to help you. And most of our deal flow is inbound, we don't actually do work to go and find entrepreneurs, they come to us and our job is filtering through them and then seeing if we can help them go to the next level. So actually not that worried that we're going to miss things.
There's been some controversy in the last few weeks and months, thrown up by the new story around we work and we works valuation was absolutely sky high. They were going for an IPO. And then it all seemed to start to crumble when people started to look under the hood. Do you guys think that that's going to have a knock on effects to early stage entrepreneurs right at the other end of the spectrum, terms of valuations? Did we all get to too much irrational exuberance? Do you think we're reaching a new level now, Reshma?
I mean, we're seeing it sort of, we're seeing it top down again, I think, you know, those going on pre IPO roadshows certainly are feeling the impact of that kind of Much more vigilance around what the long term business model is. I think the IPO markets been problematic. I think it's a terrible place to be an investor in right as a retail investor, particularly. So, you know, I'm, I believe in corrections. And I think it's healthy. To put a put a magnifying glass on that. So where's we see that at pre IPO? And where we do see much more of a focus on long term ism and thinking about the 10 year 20 year journey of that of that business and not just trying to get that next round and kind of get that uplift?
Are we seeing Do you think we're heading for a big correction, Saul?
Not really I mean, I guess what I've seen over the 25 years is that if you shot the course of the NASDAQ, it's just basically like this. I've certainly lived through at least three or four major corrections, probably the biggest was 99. Thousand and One, another very big one was 2008. I'm sure there is going to be some, you know, sentiment around we work. And, you know, a jewel was a four and a half billion dollar rights of for one of its investors in the last few weeks. But I think these are just blips in the market. And if you look 1020 years out, which the best companies and the best investors do, you know, we're on a major secular wave here, which is way bigger than, you know, public market corrections or a few, albeit very big missteps, you know, that that some investors may or may not have made.
One of the criticisms of invest in that investing generally, sometimes, David is that, you know, there's a lot of money at early stage and there's quite a lot of money at late stage, but not much in the middle. And entrepreneurs they get to a certain point and then suddenly, the There's a bit of a valley of death post series A or late seed. Do you think that's being addressed now?
I mean, I certainly think it's true. And sometimes it's it's eye opening for the startups that come out of the phase of investing that we do to realize there's a bit of a crunch, it forces entrepreneurs to double down on their businesses and figure out the right level of profitability and investment, maybe be a little more lean and mean, I think, in raising too much money and having your pockets flush with gas, cash is not necessarily a good thing. 
Yeah.
Though I think on the positive side for Europe, I will say, I think in in any of these kinds of situations, we've had much more local investing. So Europe has been invested into at those kind of the skinny part of the barbell you know, by European investors, I think the opening up and you know, US investors coming in at series A be increasingly at seed means there is a Moore optionality for European startups who used to be overlooked 510 years ago, even two, three years ago. So I think we see some of that, but there's just much more money available for Europeans, at least,
the European scene has been certainly being dominated by London than the last few years and Brexit is now throwing a bit of a spike into the, into the wheels of the European scene. Do you think that London will be able to maintain its position with the chaos of Brexit whatever happens, Saul?
Um, sadly, yes. But I mean, you know, the three of us live live in London and I think we're all pretty upset two and a half three years ago with the way the referendum went, but you know, tech in London tech in the UK is actually just going from strength to strength. You know, there's more capital being invested the more billion dollar Companies being produced the 50,000 people who work at unicorns that 2.1 million people working in tech. So I mean, unfortunately, tech and Brexit, you know, Weil politically they are coupled economically they seem to be decoupled. And I think whatever happens with Brexit, the UK is in a very, very strong position.
Fabrice, you travel LocalGlobe and have a big sort of 30,000 feet view of this. What do you see do do you see big changes in the market because of things like Brexit or do you not see any change at all?
I think secondarily, we're so so so early in the tech in the tech revolution mean 10% of commerce is online. By the way 25% of China's were behind their tech is not penetrated anything in terms of like, education 10% of GDP healthcare, up to 20% of GDP, public services 30 to 50% of GDP. I mean construction that we we build houses the way was built 200 years ago, everything's bespoke. We're day one. And so even macro events don't matter all that much like we're going to have a recession at some point in the next few years. But it will be dwarfed by the secular massive trend in favor of technology that will, you know, ultimately make this world a better place.
Well, that's an optimistic note, David, finally, we've seen Techstars New York, Berlin, San Francisco. What are we going to see? Techstars Mars?
Mars? 
Elon. 
We're staying to Earth for now. 
You're sticking on Earth. 
Yeah.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's been great to talk to you guys about the early stage scene. We were chatting about how we're definitely the original gangsters of the tech scene so far. We hope we'll be around for a little bit longer. For my for my myself, I'd only like to say thank you very much for joining us. And my message to my compatriots back in London and the UK is get out and vote 
Yeah.
Because we've had an election. So register to vote, and let's vote for the right people. Thank you so much.
US too.