
Trends unfolding in self driving cars, ride hailing, connectivity, and micro mobility have offered great promise so far as well as raising money valid questions. To discuss where we're heading and what mobility in 2025 could look like, we'll welcome four founders who are leading the way in the space. Please put your hands together for a Tim Stevens of CNET leading the conversation with co founder and CEO of scooter sharing unicorn Lime Brad Bao, founder and CEO of car sharing company Getaround Sam Zaid, the co founders of satnav pioneers Tom Tom, Corinne Vigreux and autonomous freight unicorn TuSimple TuSimple, rather, Xiaodi Hou.
Thank you everybody. Thanks to my panelists. Now we're talking about what mobile is going to look like in 2025, which is really not that far away. So I wanted to start by talking about a mode of transportation that everybody's probably pretty familiar with, the car. Now Sam, you're working on a company that's delivering basically peer to peer car sharing. So as the person probably most familiar with a car, what is a car gonna look like in 2025? Surely it's going to be pretty familiar, or will it be?
Yeah, it's actually fascinating when you think about it, because everybody is very familiar with a car. And if you think of the, you know, a best selling car, typically a four door sedan. It's actually sort of compromise solution to a lot of consumer needs, right? Is it the best car for commuting to the office? Most efficient? Probably not. Is it the best car for taking, you know, the family on a ski trip? Also probably not. Best car for, you know, best fun car for date night with your partner? Still not the right answer, right. But yet when we're buying a car, we're thinking, okay, I need my car to do this, this, this and this, and I'm going to keep it for so many years. 
Yeah.
So you buy the thing that can sort of do everything good enough, but not anything really, really well. Now, what we see on Getaround is the best performing cars are actually the more specialized cars. They're the point solutions that when you're accessing that car just for a few hours or a few days, you rent the car you really need that you really want, right? So you might rent a really compact, efficient car. You know, do grocery shopping, and you may rent a really, really fun car for the weekend, because you're going to, you know, some sort of event or wine country and you want you really want to have something you can enjoy. Right? And so, I think as we start to look at the shift from ownership to access to mobility on your phone, then that should influence the car form factor towards more specialization. And rather than the four door, five seats sort of standard car, you end up with taking that those set of use cases and breaking them apart. And so, you know, I don't that answers your question, but I think what it does mean is services like Lime are a great example of like, Hey, here's a form factor that fits a need and does one thing really well.
Yeah, I think that's great so that gives us more opportunity to delve into these different niches of cars almost. Well maybe even more extreme performance cars, rather than buying that big long box pickup truck just because you might buy that one sheet of drywall every year. Now you can just get maybe a smaller pickup truck and get that truck the time that you need it. So assuming that cars and sales are not changing that much, Brad, we'll still have probably a lot of the same problems that we're going to have when it comes to those last mile problems in micro mobility. So 
Yeah.
What is that segment going to look like in five years from now?
I think the first the way we look at it is we look at what what's down the road, you know, 10 years, 20 years down the road. And we have a goal post right there. And in five years is the middle point towards that. What do we do believe in, that given urbanization that's happening globally right now, given the pollution, congestion is getting worse, right? Building more roads and adding more cars is not a solution. It's making it worse. And what we believe in is the fundamentally how we rethink about it in terms of urban planning, in terms of form factors, and the service we have. So we believe in one thing that we share a lot with you know, Sam, and Getaround here is number one is purposely built vehicles for that need. It's not one size catch all. The second thing is shared. It you know, if we look at the car industry today is ownership driven. And 90% of them are idle on the street taking up a space so we believe we ensure that we'll be increasing the efficiency and give everyone access to the vehicle they needed, regardless of the form factor. The third thing we also believe in is we're getting there. Well for us, and we are already 100% renewable energy, right? It will not be powered by gas, you will be more and more so powered by electricity and also green energy. That's what we believe in. And we're working towards that right now.
And presumably, a big part of that is working with local municipalities working with local governments to make sure that there's a strong partnership hand in hand. Is that something that you're continuing to learn about? Is that something that process do you see that evolving? You these municipalities maybe being more open to these discussions?
Yeah. Yeah, totally. Yeah, it's we as a company that we see cities as our partners since day one. So every city we go to we sit down with months months ahead and discuss how we incorporate it into the city, you know, landscape, and also we share data with them to help them to do better plantings. So fundamentally, we're going to shift the user behavior, the mentality, and also infrastructure as well. We do see them as a long term partner, but it's such a young industry and we you know, I believe we're at the beginning of a new era of urban mobility and the city are learning together with us. But lucky enough, I think the goals are fully aligned. Cut traffic congestion, and reduce pollution. Those are the top priority for most of the cities in the world today.
And Corinne, we were talking about this little bit backstage before we came on, that's, you know, the goals may be aligned to sometimes the individual goals, the different people playing within are not so aligned. Do you see that getting better? Or is this still going to be a challenge?
Actually, we need to look at. We're all working here very hard on technologies and that technology is there for purpose. I think the purpose we all have is is pretty similar. We want safer road. It's not normal today that so many people die on the road, and we want less congested cities. It's not normal that 80% of cars are not utilized during the day. We want to give that space back to the citizen. And we want to have a cleaner world. And we all approach it in different ways. At TomTom here we are, so we are into the car. We're working on all those three aspects with all the technology. We're doing with real time mapmaking, and traffic information is really to increase safety on the road. Autonomous driving will be safer with high definition mapping. And and actually, you know, we often been asked the question, when is self driving going to be a reality? Well, in effect, it doesn't really matter. What's important is we all working to make the world safer. So all along the way, every little bits of technology that comes to market will play to making the world safer. The way we doing with traffic in the last mile and and to all of us, this is the same thing for reducing congestion and pollution. So I think what's important is we all attacking this problem from a different angle with a lot of very clever technology where the gain is to make the driver back in control, reduce increased safety, reduce congestion, and help cleaner cities.
And of course, autonomy is something that everyone is very excited about. But I don't think any of us really think that will see a mass adoption of fully autonomous cars within the next five years, which I don't think so. But autonomous trucking though, I think has a lot of potential in being deployed within the next five years. Xiaodi, would you agree, do you see that coming first is one of the first applications of true self driving?
Yeah, certainly, I firmly believe that autonomous driving cars, you know, we might have still waiting for some fundamental kind of technical development for that for ton of driving trucks, it is there. And I would say that by 2025, which is the topic of the day, that it is going to be even going further being product test, or we will see your first product rolling on the road, maybe in the US or in Europe, that is fully non human. No driver at all. Driving by itself. Will reduce your consumption. Will get cheaper delivery. I think that thing is what we can expect certainly by 2035
there's certainly a lot of reasons for that shortage of drivers being one of the thing regulations as far as amount of time that drivers can spend on the road. What sort of challenges though, are between us and being able to implement those kind of things and being able to turn that into a product or a service what things need to change to be able to get those trucks on the road?
Well, I think in the on the highway a lot of infrastructures are already there and the people are driving in the way that you know, the people respect each other on highway more than we are driving on urban road. So I think that is really the point where I believe a ton of driving is more suitable on highway which comes first. Sure, but on the urban driving, I think there's a lot of things that we still need to do for example, how to get on the onto the, you know, how do we get on or off the robo taxi for example, maybe there are some collaboration opportunities with Lime you know for road access.
Yeah you have a beautiful partnershiping forming right here. I love it. That's great. And Corinne, High Definition mapping of course, will be a huge part of this because these cars need know, every millimeter of every surface of the driving over. So can you briefly explain what exactly HD mapping is and how those maps are being generated right now?
Yes, I think today people are used to GPS GPS is not precisely enough for autonomous driving, we need to put the car was in two centimeter position on the road. And there's a lot of debate, but everybody now recognizes you need a map and a very precise map. Because sometimes you could chop corners, you can read the lane markings, it's raining, there is fog. So you need to have sensors in the car and high definition mapping. So two different technologies that and you actually use and sort of make HD maps and we have millions of kilometers of roads that need to be, again, defined with these high definition mapping. So it's a lot of investments. We use a lot of computer vision, a lot of AI. It's very intensive in terms of computing power, and, and you need a lot of data. So and that's the thing that Tom Thomas barked on people know us for the sadness. We've sold 100 million of satnav we actually democratized navigation. And and today we really looking into the future and also bringing real time mapmaking. The other thing is, when you have a car on the road autonomous it needs to know if there was an accident if a bridge is closed, if there's been something happening somewhere needs to know in advance. So all that real time mapmaking understanding the surrounding is what we working on. And that's fascinating because for us, it's a bit of a next stage how to make it possible for drivers to drive and enjoy their drive. Let's not forget about driving is fun, as well. And I think and and it should be safe and fun. And whatever we do, the only thing we think about is that car driver, it that guy that women that family in the car, and it's to enjoy where it's going what to do it safely wants to explore, and that's what we're working on.
And that, of course, is a huge amount of data that's being generated from cars right now on the road or helping to develop those maps. And that's a large amount of data. But Sam, there's a lot of data that you're learning as well, when it comes to cars usage, that trends in car sharing trends, what sort of things are you learning there? And what sort of evolution of that sort of usage patterns you see over the next five years?
Yeah, I mean, so we have connected technology that we've developed in pretty much every car on Getaround. And so we're collecting a lot of data and we see, you know, that means everything from you know, the the data that's on the canvas in the car to you know, how the users are driving. We also obviously have a full process for when there's accidents and things like that. So we also have sort of, you know, the claim side of that equation. You know, and we definitely start to see, you know, sort of interesting trends and how people are using cars, what they're using them for when they're using them in a city when they take them out of the city, sort of you A very high fidelity around, you know, when the sort of driving people have when they're, for example, using it as a, as a gig driver in a gig economy usage versus maybe driving through the mountains versus, you know, commuting. And so there's there's actually some very, very interesting data sets that we're starting to develop around what is the true driver risk? And how does that fit to a particular use case on a particular type of car with a pattern? And we see that as something that's, that's quite useful. We've also, you know, talked with many autonomous driving companies about how do we, you know, package that data up as training data or useful data for the purposes of, you know, training and autonomous car. So, there's, there's a lot of that is real world data. It's not, you know, practice data or safety data. It's actually data. Yeah. And so I think that there's a lot of collaboration there with, you know, cars in general. That is, we're starting happening across the industry.
And when we talk data, a lot of people think that there's going to need to be a lot of bandwidth for these things. And I think a lot of people expect within five years that 5G will be ubiquitous despite the fact that LTE has been around with us for any more than five years, and it's still far from ubiquitous. Xiaodi, do you think that 5G is a requirement for autonomy going forward? Is that something that every Thomas car will need to have? Or is that more of a nice to have kind of?
I think the 5G for autonomous driving is really icing on the cake. Because every moments when that car is driving by itself, its mission critical. So we can't really rely on something like 5G even though they will give great performance improvements if you have 5G but there's no guarantee that the next second you will still have that 5G capabilities. And just take an example that do you drive ten minutes east from our testing facility in Tucson, Arizona, you will get some signal issues probably sometimes we dropped to 2g and if you try one hour east, then there's no signal at all.
So these cars need to be basically able to operate even in completely isolated
right basically, that's a prerequisite that we have to drive by the vehicle has to drive by itself safely. However, if we have that data, for example, if we know when there is a, you know, traffic jam, or there is a closure, we need to have a clever detour on something. I mean, it's always good to have those signals. But this information is useful for us to improve the efficiency rather than guarantee safety. However, I think for the very earliest stage of autonomous driving application in real world safety is the number one thing and then efficiency.
It's a mix between historical data which help with prediction and and dynamic data, which be traffic information, if you don't have it, the cars to drive but that's that safety. And the fact that you always need to be that have that connectivity is is very important. So it's a mix of onboard and onboard information.
And we're talking High Definition maps, then presumably they're going to be changing relatively frequently since they are so precise, how much bandwidth? Do you reasonably need to keep a high dimension map updated within a car.
Yeah, so it's all again, that we have a lot of car driving was a lot of sensors. So you bring that that sense, you have a base MAP sensor data, a little bit is automatically updated. So some of the curve a tree doesn't change too often. So it's just a mix of of incorporating that dynamic data. So we have some single auto stream. So use it goes to the cloud and come back. But to your point, it also needs to work when you don't have connectivity. And I think that's very important. So you have the base map that actually is there and and that's valid, and then you can add some dynamic data. So that's how people drive today. Let's Let's face it, some into the satellite navigation is used by most people in the world. So
in addition to increasing data that we have going on right now, we're also seeing a lot more services coming to play, of course, and I presume that trend is not going to slow down within the next five years. Brad, I think one of the things I'm looking forward to seeing is more multi modality which is basically instead of me having to Look at Uber, go somewhere, then book a Lime and go somewhere, being able to say I need to get here and have a nap just figure it out. Is that something that you're looking forward to improving the next few years?
Yeah, that's totally do we start a company as a urban mobility company not a scooter, not bikes, even though we have all of them, right, we're further experimenting with different form factors. And also partnership enables us to do multi modality as well further integration with Google Maps, which were which were already done, and also partnership with Uber and, you know, potentially with transit as well. We do see our service that the user use our services connecting to the mass transit, and that that is a significant use case as well. And also, you know, Sam and I was joking about it, that using the Lime school or to get to a Getaround car there, you can take a weekend trip, right. And that's another use case and you know, maybe connected to a truck center. Yeah, any use cases.
I know that powered by my maps, we good Got it.
Right here everybody walks up Arm and Arm singing together.
So I think the fundamental thing, what we focus on is a user need, right? Instead of, you know, dividing up by, hey, you have to do this or do that and create a friction in between, I think we all share the same vision and same mentality, and we are all pushing towards the same goal. And that enable us to do and really thinking about from the user perspective, and by us, I mean, our riders and also city are our user as well.
Sam, does that process make you nervous at all that that maybe you're giving away? Maybe the secret sauce of your company, or that maybe somebody would become a little bit more dependent on another mode of transportation than your own by integrating into something like that?
No, not really, at all. Actually, I think just the opposite. We're very excited about that. Because we believe that you know, as you specialize, transportation more, you end up with better solutions. And then you Yeah, you have are you have a different problem with how you stitch them together in a way that makes sense. But you know, there's there's way too much dependent I mean, for us There's we own too many cars, right? We wait 30 billion hours, every single day globally of cars just parked doing nothing, right. So we have a massive car overpopulation problem. And I think having more modes of mobility mean people can move away from ownership towards sort of accessing mobility on demand and that for everybody in on this panel, I think that's a positive thing. And it's actually very rational and efficient thing for the market and for the consumer. So you know that everybody wins there in even for the OEM, who probably don't like the idea of selling fewer cars. Yeah. It doesn't mean they'll necessarily sell fewer cars. It's like when the smartphone came out. You know, now people buy phones every year instead of buying a phone every five years. So what it really means is you'll turn over cars much faster, but they'll just be utilized more.
Do you have any thoughts? Oh, yeah go ahead Corinne.
I think it will happen. I think when you look at the way technology gets accepted, the bigger the problem, the faster the technology gets accepted. And I think problems we're trying to solve real problems. I live in Amsterdam and the policy has been to really reduce causing the cities and that we have. It's a bike traffic jams. But you can see that mobility gets adapted to certain conditions and with technology with electric biking with scooters with companies like Lime, you will see these being made available and consumers will actually choose what's better for them. What we here we are enablers, we are enablers for cities and for consumers to just choose their mobility. It's always difficult to predict the future but we all working to solve the same type of problems. And I think that there's a lot of clever technology behind it so it will happen.
The idea of a bicycle traffic jam, sounds, sounds,
American ears, I'm gonna save it also sounds kind of nice. You could have a nice conversation with Web recently, especially if you're in the rain. From that OEM perspective, though Brad you have any thoughts in terms of what an OEM might need to do to really capitalize on These changes going forward these changes ownership trends and multi modality and everything else.
Yeah I said so isn't the change quite a bit there the the few things we learned a very interestingly number one that when it comes to retail that the the two thing they need to craft a vehicle not necessarily for what it is purpose for, right but they will have like trims or their stuff in the fancy stuff user may not looking forward to they need a specialized purposes to build a vehicle for their use case. Instead of Oh, I have this Louder rapping on it. That's what I'm paying for. I think that's one of the Shift, focus more on the purpose of it. And the second thing I think is more interesting and same to us. We design our own scooters as well. Right and what with Liam, as well, that when when it comes to providing more as a service, you know regardless of Getaround or us we're talking companies, that the skill becomes interesting. Now they have the skill to order size. They can do a lot of faster iterations, a lot of experiments, they can sink down the r&d costs, and also like moldings and all that stuff that historically in in individual retail cars they were not able to afford. So I look forward to fast iterations instead of five years that it come with a new car model. It could be shrink to two years, even a year. Now they you know, observe what's happening in the market and you're looking at it, you know, for ourselves, right? Lannen has a fleet and not one to one comparison, but Lime has a fleet bigger than the entire FedEx global fleet. And that skill gave us the capability to do a lot of r&d and a lot of experimenting stuff that we can you know, further innovate.
And Corinne is there anywhere in the world that you see right now that may be ahead of the curve. When it comes to the trends we're talking about areas that that these companies should maybe keep an eye on to, to kind of get a preview of what's coming elsewhere in the world.
You mean in terms of mobility in general 
Mobility ride sharing car sharing and yeah the overall trends we've been talking about.
So I what I see in Europe This is a very mobility we there's not one size fits all we move in different ways in Asia that in the US and in Europe, we move differently in cities than than outside cities. We see like and the panel beforehand the lady talking about Lamborghini, you still like driving fast cars and you won't do that in cities but you'll enjoy that outside so there is not one size fits all. I think what I'd like to think is that in Europe because of the the sophistication of our multimodal transport, we can actually be a little bit ahead of the game for once and we have quite a lot of advances we have some very strong car manufacturer that are working on to software is a big thing and with that we need to bring I think that the thinking about the car drivers in the car you interact. The whole Coptic design needs to be so differently again to accommodate these different multimodal transport. So I'd like to think that in Europe, we will kind of lead the way that we need to talk to the regulator that that's one side that needs to work for us. But I think we're not as far as one thing to have self driving vehicles and have accepted multimodal transport. So closer than one thing.
All right, well hopefully we're not too far behind in the US. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you for joining us. 
Thank you.
Thank you.