
Yvonne Redmond: In January, Amazon to overtook Microsoft to become the most valuable public company in the whole world. As the company continues to scale to unprecedented heights, will its mission to continuously innovate get tougher. Our next guest is at the forefront of innovation in the powerhouse that is Amazon, and arguably one of the most influential CTOs in the world. Here to talk about Amazon, AWS, and how machine learning is fundamentally changing the world around us. Please put your hands together for the Chief Technology Officer of Amazon, Dr. Werner Vogels.
Werner Vogels: Good afternoon, Lisbon. How you doing for the last session. Thank you all for coming out still to listen to this. So with all the talk about AI and machine learning and topics like that, I thought it would be good to talk to you about what Amazon has been doing for the past 20 years with artificial intelligence, and most importantly, machine learning. Now, if I think about, think about Amazon, I'm not thinking about Amazon as a retailer. I think about Amazon as a technology company. And if you look at all the things that we've innovated over past for the past 20 years, all of them has been driven by technology advances, and machine learning plays an increasingly important role with that. You have to remember that Amazon is, is founded by computer scientists. And when Jeff thought about sort of starting Amazon. He didn't want to start a bookshop. He was fascinated by what the internet could do that you could not  do anywhere else.
Werner Vogels: And he just picked books. A really good bookshop has about 40,000 titles, the StockX Yes. There's millions of books out there. So you could build a bookshelf on the internet that holds all the books of the world in it. And I think he's come pretty close to it. But remember, in 94, the word ecommerce didn't exist, that none of the software that you can be able to buy in packages today. Yeah, didn't exist. Nobody done recommendations before, or similarities or reviews or self service ordering. All the things that you now consider to be normal in any e commerce operation has been pioneered by Amazon over the years. And a crucial part of that has been actually AI. Or what I would like to call one subset of AI, machine learning. We are increasingly using data to make data driven decisions using very large data sets for which individual humans can no longer have an industry understanding, and you really need to make use of advanced algorithms and training to build models based on the data that you have. And it's not that at Amazon, we've been doing AI for the sake of AI. Now, we've really paired our scientists, with our builders to make sure that the kinds of things that we are delivering in machine learning and AI are actually useful for our customers. We're trying to solve customers problems using these technologies. 
Werner Vogels: So if you look over the years, we've delivered so much innovation in and around AI, that we've become one of the powerhouses of machine learning. And many of the things from the outside world like the really big innovations like the Amazon go store or Alexa are obvious things that you see are driven by machine learning. But we've done so many things under the covers at the back end of Amazon that are also all driven by machine learning. And in essence, we have basically thousands of employees working on these technologies for the past 20 years. Many of these things, you know, you know, you know about similarities, you know about the recommendations, you know, about sort of visual search. But there's so many other things in the back end, for example, abusive review detection, or counterfeit good detection, or fraud prevention. All of those are driven by machine learning. 
Werner Vogels: And a very large part of that is really in the background of our operations, how to deliver goods and packages to our customers. That in in essence, we literally deliver billions of packages a year in more than 185 countries. And that's pretty challenging. Because especially if you want to give hard guarantees about the ability to deliver goods in a certain time frame. 
Werner Vogels: And so there's four different parts to all of that. All of them which are driven by machine learning. First year forecasting, basically, which products to buy? And how many of them to buy that you get the buying part, where do you source from? What are the best sourcing in relation to the location where you will dispute staff? So Dave placement, in which of the many fulfillment centers that we have around the world, do you place these goods, since that you can actually make promises to your customers on one or two day deliveries? So, all of those are driven by technologies based on machine learning. So let's take a take a few examples. You have forecasting is easy, or things that are starting to repeat buys that people buy continuously. So detergent Sakkers garbage bags, they're easy to forecast, and even things that are seasonal, like warm socks or sunscreen, don't you Easy to forecast pretty becomes much harder. If you look at more unique items. Yeah. And it can be driven for example, by price elasticity. If the price of certain televisions start to drop, you may see a rise of interest in customers in buying those televisions or, you know of products have on sale at all or only infrequently get sold. Yeah, because tasting lip balm is not that terribly popular. Or if you look at sort of the seasonal or regional demands, that they may be very different things in Florida, and not necessarily very popular in Alaska. And then you have sort of the idea of our new products. Now what are the demand for products that you've never sold before
Werner Vogels: Or seasonal demands. If the last episode of Game of Thrones would have been just before Halloween, you will see the normal rising interest in Halloween, in Game of Thrones Halloween costumes. So much of this has been driven in the past by incremental advances in machine learning, until we got to the point that we could really start to deploy deep learning at scale. And we saw a massive increase in accuracy. And what does that mean? It means that you can give better guarantees to your customers about exactly when a way you can deliver your goods. So especially around things that are really, really hard to forecast, new networks really help you a sort of making trying to make decent forecasts. Yeah, this is a great example. The Nicholas cage magical reversable sequin pillow cover might not necessarily be the most popular item in the world. However, how do you forecast that, but as an individual item, you can't do this. However, your algorithms can look at thousands of items that are remarkably similar to this product, and then still make decent forecasts, since that is so many Las Vegas will order this product, we can still promise it to deliver in two days. So we've made basically billions of dollars of investment in a fulfillment network to make sure that we can deliver goods to customers with a real hard promise. And especially recently when we've moved from two days to one day deliver the promise of that fighting one day delivery with plan that really has delighted our customers. Really speeding a prime is a is an important item for us because customers really enjoy either getting things in half an hour, or an hour or in the original prime two days and I one day but the question is can we can we speak Hope even more. Yeah, and we've been experimenting and developing a drone system that actually helped customers deliver goods within 30 minutes within 15 miles of a, of a fulfillment center. And, you know, with packages up to five pounds. When we developed a dual system, it was incredibly important and crucially important for us that these drones are safe. Safety is the most important part of the development of our drone system. So for that, you actually need to have use multiple sensors to be able to really detect everything in the environment. So different sensors, no one sensor by themselves are good enough to actually sense the environment. For example, seminars unknown Really good in detecting fluffy dogs. So you may have a different set of sensors embedded the same diversity of all of these sensors allow you to actually build a system in Mr. John can sense and avoid any obstacles. So both in terms of static objects and moving objects, these drones need to be able to detect them and avoid them. So you can use for example, stereo Cristina Scott vision to detect cranes or chimneys and things like that. But you need to have a whole set of other centers if you think about moving objects. And deep learning plays an increasingly important role in all of that. For example, moving objects in the sky is something that these drones need to avoid at all costs. So let's take a look at at an example there somewhere on the horizon is an object that is flying. Take I see it?
Werner Vogels: No. But with certain vision objects vision algorithms, were able to detect that there was a paraglider in the distance. And as such, the drone really needs to avoid that. When the John goes from vertical from horizontal flights at vertical descent mode, you need to be able to make sure that the area below the drone is free of any objects of us, again, a diversity of sensors to make sure together with deep learning to make sure that we understand exactly which objects are in the delivery zone. So take an example here, we can see the different types of sensors. And really when the area turns red, there's an object inside the center in this case, a human that you definitely need to hold the The sense of the drone to make sure that you can only deliver when it's absolutely safe. And the same goes about and this is a really hard problem. Yeah, wires are not easily detected. And definitely if you look at these imagery with our eyes, we can see this. So we built very sophisticated vision algorithms to detect to use the unique physical attributes of wires to be able to detect them. Again, this is a great example of him, you see that the drone is descending and realizes that there is a washing line out there and essentially halt it isn't crucial in all of this is safety. That's the first and most goal that we have in building a drone systems. This is another realm that we use to delight our customers with quick delivery. This Scout, and it will actually deliver packages over the sidewalk to you. But again, here scout needs to avoid any objects like trash cans or lawn chairs or a leaf blower, or whenever you've left laying around. And again, safety here is crucial, making use of multiple sensors to avoid these objects.
Werner Vogels: Probably, you've heard about the go stores that we've been building. And again, they're sophisticated vision algorithms are the driver behind sort of being able to build these stores. And not only detecting sort of which account or which customer is moving through the story, and that will be easy. If there's only one customer with if there's literally hundreds of customers in the store. These things are becoming incredibly hard to do. And machine learning. efficient algorithms help us Drift are also with respect to the customers but also with the product. know some products. I The same, but look remarkably different. Or they're not the same, but are packaged almost identically. So how can you make sure that your fishing algorithms can actually detect these. And again, it's all driven by machine learning and artificial intelligence. If you if you listen to what heat story yesterday, you've heard about Michel at Alexa, which is, of course a big driver, big, largely driven by as well. And really sort of trying to emulate the computer in Star Trek was the initial motivator for us to build Alexa.
Werner Vogels: But again, behind the scenes, this is all driven by advances in machine learning, and artificial intelligence, and whether that is natural language understanding or text to speech. All of these are driven by machine learning, and if that we've been able to delight customers, if it's like you different tasks. Yeah. Joon, today, you'll see that users will continue to use Alexa, but for very different purposes. And if you listen to the heat StockX yesterday, you've seen that all these different new learning algorithms actually are continuously driving improvement in in Elixxir. Now, what I want you to remember is two years ago, I was on stage here and first started talking about Alexa and what is behind it. Most importantly, is that the echoes are just one version of Alexa. Alexa is integrated literally into hundreds of other devices, from fridges to to Sonos devices, all of them have Alexa integrated into it by using the Alexa Forbes surface. So if you look at these Hadas actually happening behind the scenes, they Alexa, play some sad country music, that issuance after detecting the vape work goes to admin speech recognition. And then go to you to natural language understanding, then figures out which skills to execute. And then text to speech actually allows you to given a response back to your customers. important is that each and every one of you can integrate the Alexa voice service into any of your applications. And whether you build the hardware or software, you can have Alexa integrated into any of your apps. That was very long history at Amazon, with respect to machine learning, and especially also when it comes to development. So our task and our go at AWS, the cloud computing division of Amazon, is to get machine learning in the hands of everyone, not just data scientists. Yeah, and if I look at, we literally have hundreds of thousands of customers already running on AWS using part using AI machine learning, and I just picked one of them. This is an interesting one, educated Jonathan mechanism for early detection of autism by making use of our fishing algorithms. So this is the traditional stack, you know, originally, data scientists were the ones that actually were doing machine learning. And I consider that to be sort of the assembly level programming of, of data science. The majority, I think of the algorithms that we've seen over time, is that engineers need to be able to pick an algorithm not necessarily develop on 95% of all machine learning can be done by picking an algorithm instead of developing long. But it's been way too hard to do this. So we built a system for you called SageMaker that actually is one click of a button. You can actually push through everything from these three determining which algorithms you want to use, how to train them, how to deploy it, really taking away all the heavy lifting, that is irrelevant machinery. Many of these elevators are built for what we call infinite scale. Because if you have a trillion dollar trillion item data sets, and you want to train on that, you want to add Timo data, you don't want to retrain the whole dataset, you want to be able to add to it. So the streaming algorithms perform really well in that sense. And then there is a category of developers that just want to make use of a freemium model, where it is revision algorithm or text processing or speech processing, all of those, these created pre built models for each and every one to use. And I think it's never been easier to learn at the Get Started with machine learning right now. So we've actually doing quite a bit of fun things around that for you. On one hand, there's the AWS machine learning University, which is basically everyone the ability to get the same training that the Amazon engineers has had internally. And you also build some Finn hardware for you to experiment with computer vision. As well as with sort of reinforcement learning, if you want to stop me if I told him his cars well enough that ML the databases we had to go and I suggest, why don't you go built right now? Thank you