
Casey Lau: It's been at the top of the tech news agenda for months now. But what exactly is Facebook's new product, Libra? And why is it needed? Facebook says it wants to reach the 1.7 billion people around the world who do not have access to a bank account. However, the road has not been smooth. And as the plan rollout of Libra nears, do we need a question to question if Facebook can bring all the pieces together to make it a reality? To discuss, please welcome to the stage global technology correspondent for the Financial Times, Tim Bradshaw, and the co creator of Facebook's new cryptocurrency, Libra, Kevin Weil.
Tim Bradshaw: Hey Kevin. 
Kevin Weil: Hello. Thanks for having me here.
Tim Bradshaw: Yeah, no thanks for coming on. 
Tim Bradshaw: So cryptocurrencies, two things to talk about first thing on a Tuesday morning. Tell us about your journey into this. So you were at Twitter. You ran product to Instagram. You run ultramarathons. Which of those is most useful in creating a new global currency?
Kevin Weil: Definitely ultramarathons.
Kevin Weil: So, I was at, I was at Instagram. I was leading the product team getting to work for Kevin Systrom, who I still believe is the single best product thinker in the world. Learning a ton. Loving it. And then a friend joins. She had been working at Andreessen on their crypto fund. And my my wife was at Andreessen as well, so, so I'd known her. And when she joined, I said, oh, let's grab lunch. What are you going to work on here? She says, well, nominally, I'm working on Corp Dev, but really, really Facebook needs to do this thing with crypto. And I was like, Oh my God, that's the most ambitious thing I've ever heard of. And then around the same time, David Marcus is talking with Mark Zuckerberg about these set of ideas. And at some point, I realized I'm waking up in the morning, thinking about this set of ideas. I should be thinking about Instagram, because it's such an amazing product to get to work on on a great team, but I'm thinking about this. And so I took that as a sign and, and I jumped. So, you know, 
Tim Bradshaw: Had you dabbled in, had you dabbled in crypto before personally? Had you bought any Bitcoin or what was
Kevin Weil: I had. Yeah. You know, I'm a big Bitcoin fan. It, it wasn't like I was back in 2010 buying Bitcoin. So it was more of a, you know, 2014, 2015, 2016 thing for me. But I have a physics background. It was always like, why is this so interesting? There's something here. But now, you know, I've been fortunate to get to work on products like Twitter and Instagram, but I think what we're doing here If we're successful, will be the most meaningful and impactful thing I probably ever work on.
Tim Bradshaw: So but what why do you say that? So what I mean, there's there's obviously a lot of regulatory concern about Libra. But what's the what's the pro case for what this could do? 
Kevin Weil: Yeah, I think the best analogy or the best, the best way to think about Libra is actually the make an analogy to the internet. So take yourself back 30 years, you could text message. But you could probably only text people that were on your same network. You couldn't text people across networks, let alone around the world. And it probably cost you 25 cents every time you send a text message. You could call people around the world, but it cost you $3 or $5 a minute. And it wasn't really changing very fast because you had a small group of, of providers, relatively closed ecosystem, high barriers to entry, not a lot of competition. And then The Internet comes. And suddenly you have a decentralized infrastructure where the cost of send of, you know, sending a byte from one place to another is basically free, lowers barriers to competition or to to entry dramatically. You have a lot more competition. Suddenly you have things like Skype. And with Skype, no more charging three or $5 for a long distance phone call, because you can do it for free on Skype. And then you have things like instant messaging, where it's free to talk to anybody anywhere in the world. And suddenly now it's free to text. And now fast forward 20 years, and you can basically send 360 degree live video to anyone, anywhere in the world, instantly and for free. So the question that's that's been motivating us is, can we do for money what the internet did for information? Because the financial system feels a little bit similar to what the telco system did 25 30 years ago, it's a relatively closed system. There are high barriers to entry lot, not a lot of competition. It's tough to innovate. And it's expensive for people. It's very expensive to be poor. And so the question is, what if you could replace that or augment it with a system that made it look at the decentralized infrastructure that made it basically free to send a unit of value from one place to another anywhere in the world. Where you had low barriers to entry, you had, you had competition, you had an open market where anybody can build services on top of this new infrastructure. And if you had that, I think you could do a lot of good for a lot of people
Tim Bradshaw: And so what was it that means, why now like, from a point of view of why is that possible today that it wasn't five years ago or you don't need to wait another five years? Why was this the right moment for that idea?
Kevin Weil: Yeah, well, there's the there's the old saying the best time to plant a tree 10 years ago, but the second best time is now. And you couple that with the fact that blockchain infrastructure, you know, basically came onto the stage 11 years ago with Bitcoin, it's evolved a fair amount, we're now at a place where I think it, it's beginning to be able to scale. And they're just there are 1.7 billion people around the world who don't have access to a bank account, who store their life savings in cash in their house, because that's the best opportunity they have. And if we can change that to a world where anybody who has a phone can have access to the same financial infrastructure that we're all lucky to have, I think we can make the world a much better place.
Tim Bradshaw: But so you're a co creator of Libra, but you're also in charge of Calibra, which is the Facebook Wallet for that. So just explain what the particular benefits of Calibra might be.
Kevin Weil: Yeah, and I should say about Libra. So one of the things as, as we were thinking about these ideas, it was clear that no single company should operate infrastructure like this. And, and so from the beginning, we knew that we were going to create something like the Libra Association, which is designed to be it's a nonprofit association based in Geneva. With the idea being that by the time we launch, there'll be 100 different entities, companies, NGOs, academic institutions, that help govern the infrastructure that manage the reserve that backs Libra, and Facebook, or Calibra. The subsidiary of Facebook is just one of those hundred with equal voting rights to everybody else. So that's, that's really important to understand. One of the one of Tony one as one of 21 currently, and with the goal of being one in 100 by the time we launch, so co Libra. The Facebook subsidiary, we're building a digital wallet for Libra. The ideas It Calibra will do two really simple things. It'll let anybody store value securely and for free just using their phone, and it'll let people send money to any person or business anywhere in the world instantly, to really simple things. But when you think that there are 1.7 billion people that can't do that today, those are important things. And so will will deliver that wallet as a standalone app and also make it available within messenger and within WhatsApp.
Tim Bradshaw: Just just messenger and WhatsApp. What about Instagram, your old buddies,
Kevin Weil: vso starting in messenger and WhatsApp and the reason is our focus with Calibra is on remittances. So remittances are cross border payments, generally between friends and family. So it's, you're in the Philippines, and you have a wife and kids, you realize you can go work in the UAE and make four times as much As you can working from home, and so you do that and you're sending money back home to your wife and kids so that they can go to school, they can eat, etc. There's $700 billion a year that changes hands here, remittances. The average fee is 7%. So you've got $50 billion a year in fees go into the people who have the least ability to pay. And worse, it takes two or three days, people are often going and picking up cash in a store and can be in physical danger. And we're just like with if it's a husband and wife they almost for sure have a conversation going and WhatsApp already. Why can't we make sending money as simple as sending a text message? It shouldn't take it shouldn't cost them a percentage should be free. It shouldn't take two or three days it should be instantaneous. That's why we're starting with messenger and WhatsApp. 
Tim Bradshaw: Okay. Take us back to last year when this was all kind of starting. It seems like a A very daunting prospect to take on obviously, you've you've had some pushback in some parts of the world, which we'll get to, but um, how did you kind of decide how do you make that decision? What does everyone you know, do you get half dozen people around the table? And you will kind of say, let's try it who who pulls the lever on that to kind of say, we're going to build a global currency?
Kevin Weil: It's one of the reasons that I find working at Facebook to be such a such a powerful place to be because Mark is incredibly mission driven. And when problems like this come up, when opportunities like this come up, its first and foremost, what is the mission? And does this help us achieve the mission? Can we in this case, can we increase access to financial services for people all over the world? Can we lower the cost of financial services for people all over the world? And are we as Facebook in a unique position to have an impact here, and with WhatsApp and messenger for the reasons that we were just talking about? We really are. And that's, that's the beginning of the decision. And when Mark commits, he commits
Tim Bradshaw: round the table like what's the what's the kind of decision making process? Because famous, famously, Facebook does move fast. Yeah. How does that manifest itself?
Kevin Weil: I think Mark and David had both been seeing the opportunity here. And I think the process of committing was one of understanding that this is going to be this is not a small journey. It's not a short journey. It's not one that we can do alone. It's, we knew from the beginning, we were going to need partners alongside that we were going to have the Libra association that Facebook would not have control over this infrastructure. And that, you know, we were going to have a lot of regulatory engagement, central bank engagement. This is not going to be a thing that spreads like a social network. This is going to be the work. I think not of yours but of decades, but it's a journey worth making.
Tim Bradshaw: But the timing was interesting as well because obviously the Facebook was a little Little bit on the back foot and the last couple of years posts, the Cambridge Analytica scandal and other kind of worries about electoral manipulation. So how important is Libra as a sort of Totem to prove that Facebook can still take bold bets and can still kind of innovate internally? Is it been a galvanizing force? Or is it been something that everyone's like? Why the hell are we doing that?
Kevin Weil: No, I think people at Facebook are inspired by the ability to help people all over the world. And this is, you know, working at Instagram, we were inspired by the opportunity to help people become closer with the people that matter most to them. And at Libra. What drives us is the idea that we can make financial infrastructure available to more people around the world, and that we can make it dramatically cheaper for everyone around the world. It's it's the mission that brings people together. And I think people from all over Facebook and hopefully all over the world are excited by this mission because it's important, like the system can be better than it is and it should be
Tim Bradshaw: so Where is Calibra at technically? Is there a product right now? Like as I mean, there's been all of this discussion that in front of Congress or wherever else about, you know, whether or not this thing should be allowed to launch a ustwo making technical progress on the sort of coding side of it.
Kevin Weil: Yeah, we absolutely are. Actually, there's a there's a working version of it on my phone. Okay. It's pretty basic. There's, you know, it's doesn't look the greatest right now. But But yeah, it's coming together. We're, we're heads down focused on that from the Calibra side. And we're, you know, progress is happening on all fronts.
Tim Bradshaw: How do you how do you sort of manage that process in such different circumstances to because the normal way that a consumer tech company launched the product is like apple, you try and keep it secret for years, and then eventually you do Ted are and it's finished and it's perfect. You've done the opposite with this. You launched it with a white paper. You're making it very public what you're doing, how does that affect the sort of internal management and product development?
Kevin Weil: Yeah, it's this has been a different product than any that I've ever worked on. Certainly. So when we announced This back in June, we announced it well ahead of time. We announced with a white paper like Tim said, and we actually showed screenshots of the product we were building. And we did it because this is going to be a long journey. And we have to do it right. I mean, this is financial infrastructure. It's, it's something we want to move quickly on. But we have to do it in the right way. We have to ensure it's safe for people. And, and so we knew that we were going to spend a lot of time talking with regulators talking with central banks, and that was the right thing to do. So we announced it well ahead of when it was ready, so that we could have those discussions and take that feedback into account and make sure we were building the right system. The DMD feel like it was a mistake going out.
Tim Bradshaw: So in advance of it being ready like because a lot of the problems with regulators is everyone's projecting their own fears of what Libra could do to the global financial system or their monetary policy. If there was something that was that That that it was building off of if he'd launched Calibra as a wallet and then kind of said, Okay, we're going to reverse it into this broader platform, do you think you'd have got less pushback?
Kevin Weil: Well I think it was important to actually get out and talk with, with the people that we're building for. Because that's actually been from the product development side. That's been another big aspect of it. No one has ever built a digital wallet for the entire world before. And Little Ohne on a cryptocurrency. That's a thing that's new to people. So we've been spending a ton of time actually doing user research, talking with people in different locales, people who were hoping to serve and trying to get this this product right for them. 
Tim Bradshaw: Some of the people that have worked on those kinds of words before were part of the liberal Consortium, but not anymore. How much is the sort of pull out of those seven partners, before you form the formal labor Association? Is that increased the burden on Facebook yourselves? Do you feel like you've got to carry this more?
Kevin Weil: Now we're one of 21 look at when I when you 
Tim Bradshaw: most of the technical work, 
Kevin Weil: We're Doing a fair amount of technical work, although it's been exciting, Libra is open source. That was another thing that we did When, when, when Libra was announced it was open source the same day. So you can all go github.com slash Libra, please submit pull requests. We love developer feedback. That was a big part of why we announced this early. But like when you when you step back, every new innovation that's been launched in the last hundred years, I like to read a lot of history, from film to TV, radio, cars, even bikes. You get tons of pushback, you get headlines like the ones we've been seeing around Libra. So that's okay, that was expected. And we have to make sure we do this the right way. We have to make sure that we do it in a way that's safe for people. That is an open ecosystem that's more accessible. That creates competition because that's good for consumers. But when you step back 18 months ago, this was an idea. Today, we Have 21 fantastic committed organizations that are members of Libra Association, a bunch more that are looking to be involved. So I would expect that number to continue to grow. We're making progress on basically every front. And I'm really excited about where we are. 
Tim Bradshaw: how how much of that open source code is committed by Facebook versus partners. I mean it
Kevin Weil: today, it's most of it. And we're developing all out in the open. So every issue of the entire roadmap, it's all out in the open, but I think it's only a few months old, a mark of success will be that we have people you know, in the audience here, committing and so we've taken patches from the outside, there are other developers that aren't us, and I expect that to continue to grow.
Tim Bradshaw: Okay. Do you see a situation where if if regulatory problems hold up Libra for a certain amount of time, and I mean, it's been suggested you may not make the 2020 deadline of launching not because of the technical problems, but because of regulatory holdbacks. Can you see a situation where Calibra could Laurie First and just be something that's enclosed in the Facebook family of apps.
Kevin Weil: No, we're committed to Calibra as a product that's built on the infrastructure of Libra. And, you know, we've said publicly Mark committed to it. David is committed to it, that we are going to launch only once we have regulatory approvals, and we're committed to that. Okay.
Tim Bradshaw: Okay. Um, how far does I mean, Marc Andreessen was talking recently is, as you were saying, Andreessen Horowitz, very into the whole crypto space, that this is something that kind of conflicts the original sin of the internet, which was not embracing payments at the very beginning. Why was that so difficult? And how does that help, to some extent, reduce the dependence on some of the things that people don't like about Facebook, which is data or tracking and advertising? I mean, yeah, how big a part of the business could payments be eventually?
Kevin Weil: Well, so I think the internet analogies, a really apt one for a bunch of reasons. Here's another one. Take Your current favorite digital wallet, whatever it is, maybe it's PayPal, or ven mo or square cash or Zell or any of the ones that exist around the world. None of them work together. If you use one, and I use the other, we can't actually send each other money. That's not the way the world should work. And the way Libra will work, the way services built on Libra will work will be much more like email. You and I don't have to collaborate on which email provider we're going to use before we send each other an email. We don't have to choose which browser we're going to use tailored to which individual website you're going to go to. These things are protocols. And as long as you build to the protocol, everything's interoperable. Libra is the same way. So when we're building a wallet as Calibra but anybody else every person in this audience, every the smallest entrepreneur all the way up to the biggest business in the world can build wallets from Libra, and all of them are interoperable. So I may choose to use the Calibra wallet, you may choose to use a different wallet. And we can send each other money the same way we can send each other email while using different email providers. And that's the way this should work. David, it's one of the papers important.
Tim Bradshaw: David Marcus is saying last week, he didn't think Libra can be the best Libra wallet.
Kevin Weil: Well, I hope it's, I hope it's the best for a lot of people. But look, let's just take it directly, there are going to be people who are not comfortable using financial product built by Facebook. And that's okay. That's the whole point of the way this system is developed because you don't have to use a Facebook product ever, in order to get all the value from the greater accessibility and the lower costs of the labor ecosystem. So now we're going to we're going to do everything we possibly can to build a great product. And we've committed publicly on the day that we announced that your financial data in Calibra will stay separate from your social data in Facebook. So any of the financial data that you use as part of Calibra never gets used for ad targeting or any of that. But I bet not everybody in the audience believes me. And that's okay. It's something we're committed to. We're doing a ton of work behind the scenes to make that happen. We believe in a deeply, but if you don't, that's why it's important that there are thousands of other wallets on the Libra ecosystem. You can use any of them, and you can get the full value that Libra offers.
Tim Bradshaw: But there are other products that you could build on top of Libra that just go beyond wallet, right? I mean, what are the kinds of ideas that you've talked about that would add other kinds of financial services on top of the Libra platform within Facebook yourselves?
Kevin Weil: I mean, the exciting thing is that you can imagine businesses in Libra is an open ecosystem. So anybody can build any business they want to on top of Libra, where and instead of building on today's rails that have a significant number of middleman and a bunch of fees built in your building. On top of rails that anybody with a phone can access, and that have basically zero costs to them. And the the set of financial services that can be built, the improvements that can be made to the existing system are huge. And the whole point is that it isn't just us that are building, it's anybody in the audience, anybody around the world can build these services on top of Libra,
Tim Bradshaw: But does Facebook plans to build extra financial services on top of it?
Kevin Weil: We I think in time, if if I mean, the number one thing right now for us is to build a great digital wallet. And like I said before, I don't think this is the kind of thing that's going to spread like a social network. It's I think this is going to be a journey of yours. There's significantly more complicated onboarding process. It's figuring out how to use a new payment system a cryptocurrency etc. There, there are a lot of things they're going to mean this takes time, this will be a journey of years and decades. But if we're successful, I do think there'll be other opportunity To build financial services, they'll be opportunities to bring things like credit to people that have never been able to access credit before. And it won't just be us, anybody in the world can do it. Because again, Libra is an open platform.
Tim Bradshaw: Just, I mean, it's the way that you can, I mean, one of the lessons, I guess, from Facebook reaching such a scale and popularity is that there are downsides to that as well. Other ways that you can learn from things like this information or abuse online, in the social side, that mean that you can kind of lock that down on Libra, but without, you know, prohibiting some of the innovation that you're talking about.
Kevin Weil: Yeah, I think it's a huge benefit to be able to, you know, we're starting this, this, essentially like a new company within Facebook. And we're starting it now. So we have the benefit of being able to learn from some of the mistakes that Facebook and other tech platforms have made. And we have the benefit of building it with, you know, to the in the way that people Today in 2019, expect a service to be built. And so that means that when we asked for data, we're going to be very clear about what we're asking why we're asking for it, what we're using it for, we're going to give people choice and control. We're going to allow people to move their data to other providers. I mean, that's that's a built in it's part of the interoperability of the whole system. It's easy to switch between wallets. If one's not working for you. Go download another send your money to the other wallet, and you're switched. So there is a lot that we can learn and have learned from the last 10 years.
Tim Bradshaw: Okay. Other any of the of the many kind of questions that you've had from regulators on all of this, is there anything that you've kind of really internalize them think comes we need to do something really differently here?
Kevin Weil: No, I think actually, we're, the conversations with regulators are, are positive. And I actually think we're much more aligned than anything else because regulators want this to be a safe system. They want it to be one that, you know, prevents money laundering, respect, sanctions, etc. And we're actually completely you know, the Libra association is completely aligned with that. And I think there are ways with since this is digital money, it's programmable money. I think there are ways to make this even better, even more safe than the current systems that we all use. 
Tim Bradshaw: Okay, we're out of time, Kevin, thanks very much indeed. 
Kevin Weil: Thank you so much.