
Yvonne Redmond: It's never been more complicated to market brand value and engage with your customers around the world. From social media to geopolitical uncertainty, global marketing is a challenge that only the best minds can master. And our next speakers are marketing masterminds. We're about to ask them what are the definitive trends from the front lines that will shape their outlook in 2020? Here to discuss please welcome to the stage with Martin Swant of Forbes, we have president and CEO of Weber Shandwick, Gail Heimann, Chief Marketing Officer of Lamborghini Katia Bassi, and the Chief Marketing Officer of Burger King Fernando Machado.
Marty Swant: Alright, well, Hey, everybody, happy day three, I guess it is. And thanks to you all for joining. You know, there's a lot of places we could take this conversation, right? I mean, but I wanted to start with a fact that a lot of people here might know, but the average CMO, I forget who cites this, but only lasts about 18 months. But you both been in that position for a lot longer. So congratulations, by the way. Yeah. So I wanted to start with Fernando. I know that obviously, everyone knows your work from Burger King. You've had a lot of award winning campaigns. But it's interesting more recently, you've also been pinch hitting also for for Popeye's, yep. Yeah. Which, which, I mean, I don't know how big of a deal it is here in Europe right now. But right now there's a big chicken sandwich war between Popeyes and Chick fil a, and, uh, who has the best hot chicken sandwich and regular chicken sandwich but how do you, how do you stay nimble when you're thinking about these different brands that you work with? Very different personalities, but like, how do you manage your time with that?
Fernando Machado: I think I think it has to do a lot with like, having the right people in place, empowering the people to, to do the work, and making sure that you're setting a vision, defining what success looks like, and letting the magic happen. You know, like, we have like a very strong team, we have a very strong culture. So it's not Fernando doing the stuff. I surely help, and I coach and I have track talent. But you need to have a team in place and empower them to make calls and move fast, you know?
Marty Swant: Yeah. So that's interesting, so like thinking more globally with Burger King, you guys recently delivered whoppers to people in traffic in Mexico right? 
Fernando Machado: We did that. 
Marty Swant: So how do you decide what stunts or what campaigns to do in, in the various markets?
Fernando Machado: I think we I think we what what we try to do is to have very clear like, what is the key strategic objective for the for the brand and for the company, and then that trickles down to each individual market. We are doing a lot of investment in digital. You know what I mean? Like a digital is really changing fast food or QSR, which is the name of our industry. The Lever is a key Fink into that. I mean that even has been surging with all the aggregators enabling fast food to, to do delivery. So I cannot rely on massive budgets to sponsor the World Cup or the Olympics, my competitor can do that. I cannot afford that type of generic stuff. So I need to do things that will be noted that people are going to talk about and that's why we believe so much that creativity can be a source of competitive advantage. So in the case of Mexico, like we knew that we had to invest in delivery, but just Liam sponsorship, or a TV ad would probably not cut through. I don't have media enough to to make that cultural. So we went for delivering the traffic jam, which is incredibly relevant to that specific target audience.
Marty Swant: Awesome. Great. Well, it's interesting to thinking about just the different types of brands that we have on stage right now. And you know, a lot of people have had Burger King, you know, very accessible couple of bucks for for a sandwich. Not everyone can afford a Lamborghini. And I mean, I, as a journalist, I definitely can't. And so like, but I think it's interesting to the difference in marketing a lot of like you said, like strategic marketing, but you still have a lot of broader brand campaigns too but Lamborghini is very specific, you know, and, and the way you market to the customer versus doing a broad ad, you don't do any ads. 
Katia Bassi: Correct. 
Marty Swant: So how do you think through that when you're thinking through what is Lamborghini customer these days? I know you have a lot of emerging markets in China and the Middle East. So we'd love for you to talk about that that personal interaction and and how that relates across the brand.
Katia Bassi: Now, yeah, you're right, Marty. So we don't do advertising because of course, it's very important for us to have a direct connection with our customers. So we are lucky enough to have a very young customer base. 32% of our customers are below 40 years old. They're very energetic. And what they look for is really to be part of the Lamborghini family therefore, for us is key to meet them to organize activities where of course they can test the car but mainly they have a personal relationship with the brand and with the executive and with the brand, because the most important thing for them is not to be a number. So they love the idea that they have a personal relationship and that they feel that when they buy a Lamborghini, they're really someone for the company and this is how we deal with those customers.
Marty Swant: And in speaking of the aspirational aspect, it's been interesting thinking about you know, what another a lot of cryptocurrency people here everyone wants, like, what, they made it once they've had a Lamborghini. And I don't know, like, I'm just kind of curious, like what is but it's not, I mean, obviously the two very different things. But what it like when you're thinking about the aspiration of the brand and like how do you put that message across Somebody's no matter what industry they're in no matter where the money or their their ability comes from, how do you convey that? What are like? What are the phrases that you're thinking through when you're thinking about what is Lamborghini brand these days,
Katia Bassi: I believe that the three pillars of the strategy so being very informal, because one of the pillars is informal luxury, is one of the key words for our work. I mean, for us is important always to welcome our customers and also those who will come become customers in a way that it's very familiar. So in our exclusive NASA, we are inclusive very much so and therefore, you know, we are an aspirational brand for sure, but at the same time, you know, we are people centric and probably this is something that is very clear, especially through our digital platforms. 
Someone: Cool. So Gail, I know that you work across a lot of different brands. Everything from Barbie to Anheuser Busch to a lot of others. And so what are some of the trends that you've noticed more recently when it comes to the consumers of these different markets? And how do you think through that for these different brands? I know that there's been a big transformation of Barbie recently that you guys have been working on
Gail Heimann: Yeah, no one Thank you. It's great to be here. I've never before uttered the words Lamborghini and Burger King in the same sentence, let alone shared the stage with two leaders. So
Gail Heimann: Yeah, when you think i think what we're seeing and this is a little bit what we're seeing across marketing is this something that we call the power of an idea to earn attention right so it used to be a world where the TV series TV commercials were out there and they were they were moving people towards whatever brand or or idea there is, and now it's really about and I think Fernando credit to you, this is what you're doing it's idea after idea after idea that intrinsic in it is the is the power to earn attention, and I feel like no matter what channel, no matter What incredible technology no matter what one is doing digitally or using data, you still need that idea that moves people. I mean, one could argue the Lamborghini is that idea. And and that's. So I think no matter whether one is working to your point on it on on Budweiser or Barbie, or in FinTech, that that idea is the intrinsic thing. And I think that I think that lives on in perpetuity.
Someone: Sure. I know that one of the trends more recently, and not just recently, it's been kind of bubbling up is the idea of brand purpose. And, and it's at its core, it sounds just like a bunch of buzzwords, but I know a lot of people have been thinking about how do brands tie in with different causes, whether it's the environment, certain brands that are taking a stance in the US, you know, in favor of gun control. It's a lot of hot button issues in the US and abroad that brands are now having to choose and how do they be a part of that? What do they stand for? And I'm kind of curious, how does that play out in the different brands that you work for their certain causes that you're wanting To be a part of now and then how do you decide to take that risk? Because everyone knows these brands loves these brands? And like how do you help to elevate these very important issues to the broader dialogue? 
Someone: I think that at least for in our case, or I think in all cases, I think when it's done well, when it works well, it's because the brand was able to find a purpose or a cause that authentically aligns with what the brand history and what the brand stands for. I think that just speaking causes out there to make you look good or to try to be part of the conversation. It's something that many brands have done. I think we even we have done in some instances, but it doesn't work. You know what I mean? Like it's a blip, that StockX a BCG that doesn't last and doesn't really move the brand. So in our case, we are a brand that wants to be very inclusive. We welcome everyone. We encourage people to have it their way we put the crown on everyone's had. So we try to associate ourselves with with causes or With Berg with purpose that has to do with inclusion in when we do it right and it's not just a stunt. It works
Someone: Like the bullying ad. I know you guys recently did a campaign where just to raise awareness about bullying like how how did that go over?
Someone: It, that did well actually I mean we we are like close to many schools sometimes, you know, like that we see bullying happening even inside of our restaurants. And as I said, like if you want to encourage people to be their way bullying is, is a force that goes against that one campaign that I am particularly proud of and did really well with Proud Walker. But I'll do operate we did back in 2014 is very important that is still relevant today. But like that campaign even changed the way we approach diversity internally. Like we started to work much closer with the the Human Rights Campaign, we push to drive our corporate Equality Index up, we finally reached 100% this year when we started was 55 which Nauto nothing to be proud of. But that's my point. It's more than just a film is more than just a stand. There is a program in place and the company believes on that. And that's the reason why we are doing it. Sure,
Someone: Katia I know that you guys have been doing a like an electronic Lamborghini, is that right? Electric driving
Katia Bassi: Hybrid.
Marty Swant: Sorry hybrid Yes. Thank you for fact checking me. But tell us about that. Like how do you decide to market that and then also, how does that compare to say like, Tesla, for example. 
Katia Bassi: It's a completely different thing because we Lamborghini we decided to start with a hybrid car that is our Sian. It's a limited edition Karas 63 PCs. Really you know for people the level so the level of customization that we are able to dress with this car. So we are talking about the car where you can talk with our designers and really designed the car of your dreams. So for Lamborghini, this is something really very important because we are playing in the age of you. And the of your review means that the level of customization is really, you know, at the highest peak. So having what we call few off cars is one of the element of the strategy. And coming back to Fernando point, I totally agree because also as Lamborghini we talk about gender. So, for us, the customer is someone who feels comfortable in their skin and is as a specific personality. So it doesn't matter if it's a man or a woman. We don't address a specific message to a man or a woman. Because first of all, the car doesn't know if you had a woman driving. Yeah, okay. But most important for us is really you know, the Lamborghini is perceived as an epi brand, a brand of inclusion. So we really encourage women to drive more Lamborghinis.
Marty Swant: Gail, what are you noticing when you're thinking of more broadly? See, like thinking in the next year and right now? What are some of the consumer trends that you're noticing that may be kind of echo across these different industries that you work in?
Gail Heimann: Yeah. And I think you hit on it a little bit with the notion of purpose, right, as we're able to use more data to reach our customer or consumer in a in a way that's super atomized and super personalized, then what is the brand stand for? And how do you telegraph that and i and i think Fernando, you started to talk about I think it's super important now that we cannot just bolt on an idea or a cause it does have to live within because we're accountable, not only to the consumer base, but to the employee base and to the stakeholders. So you can't have a cause if you're not thoughtful about Okay, what's my supply chain doing? What's my board chain? What's my board doing? Where am I institutional investors like all of those things, you have to live it because you're you're accountable. In the world for those. And so I think PR purposes is a big thing. I think that notion of how we're telegraphing big ideas in an era of personalization, where we're doing the retail part of our jobs and what else, what else are we doing out there? How are we building communities? How are we creating enduring brands in a very short term focused world Right? Yeah, that's
Someone: speaking of short term. And I wanted to ask about a couple of particular platforms that I guess maybe pertains more to YouTube, since you don't do the ads. But TikTok has been growing massively in the US lately or everywhere, globally, but especially in the US, is that a platform that that you guys are using for your brands right now? And how does that factor in?
Fernando Machado: To be honest with you, we never brief for platform we Bry for ideas, and that's why I like so much Gail's first answer. Yeah. And I find fascinating how many companies sometimes even CMOS, but definitely around the C suite don't understand the need for big, creative, bold ideas to move business and brands forward. And in a world of short term mentality in a world of like data driven short couple of short term. That's probably one of the reasons why the tenure of the CMO is so short. I mean, like, which is a contradiction, because if it were longer, maybe you could prove some of that so many times we do things with Snapchat, Twitter, or Gagne augmented reality, we've played with all those technologies, but the brief was never the technology or the platform. The brief was for the idea. And the idea took us to the platform. It happens naturally. I think that the creative guys that work with us, they're thinking about platforms and how to innovate in platforms. But when they come just, hey, let's do something with Tick Tock. It doesn't fly with us. If it flies, it was just like, Hey, there is this big idea in works naturally into Tick tock, then let's do it. 
Marty Swant: Sure. Okay. What's interesting to thinking about that, John exhibition between like the, the need for a quick return just to prove that a CMO is performing, but also thinking longer term. I'm thinking a lot of the issues that we've seen recently Facebook and YouTube and whether it's misinformation, fake news, hate speech like that. It seems like a lot of people feel beholden to. I know it's the idea, but also thinking about platform. People feel like they have to stick on these platforms, because that's where the audience is. That's where the quick return is for app installs or Sales. But yet, and it seems like a lot of people are starting to wonder if, like an advertiser's ethics are kind of in congruent with public sentiment. So like, do you do you plan to spend less on? I know, again, it's the idea. But do you think that advertisers will spend less on these bigger platforms in 2020, especially as we go into a pretty contentious political year?
Fernando Machado: I think that advertisers will be where people are and I think that What we can do with the responsible thing to do is to work together with some of these platforms to solve some of the issues that were actually even difficult to predict that they would exist. You know what I mean? Like, and in my experience with most of the platforms, platforms has been one in which they are open to having that dialogue. You know, like we had issues of our ads being served in, in videos that like, we didn't want to be associated, but unfortunate there were people watching those videos. So the the algorithm automatically serve the videos there in by talking with the platform, we were able to solve that problem. I really believe in working together to be honest.
Marty Swant: Sure.
Gail Heimann: And and I do think, listen it, we will have both an opportunity and a responsibility to educate people on how to interpret news, how to look at what they're saying, right? I agree. advertisers are going to be where the people are, but can we help people understand what's being moved on those channels? And maybe maybe we as an industry can do that?
Marty Swant: Sure. And I'm on a related topic, and We're here in Europe. GDPR has been a big issue here in states and everywhere lately in the last year. And in the US, we have a law that goes into effect on January 1, the California consumer Privacy Act, which is massively changing the way that marketers have to think about data driven advertising, personalization, everything else. How is that affecting your businesses and and how do you both comply, but still personalized, like what's what's been the big change for each of you?
Katia Bassi: I would say personally, that having a direct relationship with our customers, because we have to know them very well or their taste is what they want, etc, is for us very important to have the opportunity that they give us, you know, the chance to treat their data in a proper way of course, but if you are in the luxury business, I would say that it's easier than in the mass market business because they really want to be connected. And they accept that you know, if they have to pay a fee to be connected, It's worth it because we react in a way that they are expecting us to react once again, as I said before, so for us as Lamborghini what we see is more and more, we have people that are happy to share their needs and their behaviors, just because we are able then to react in a certain way that they really love. 
Marty Swant: Sure. Either of you want to weigh in on?
Fernando Machado: I think i think it's somewhat similar. And I think we are learning to you know, we are like completely like beefing up our tech teams and in the the legal side of the team to help us navigate that, like the environment. We haven't had bad experiences on on on that area. But it's something that we need to be very close. All QS our office food brands are investing a lot in tech, you have the rise of mobile apps you have like customization terms of coupons. You see players Trying like different, like customization in terms of the middle board or drive through metal board. So there is a lot going on. And I think that we're all learning. 
Marty Swant: Sure.
Gail Heimann: I think a listen, there's a world of data that's open Johnson, that says opens this massive opportunity. But the reality is that re educating our people about ethics and about using data ethics, ethically is is is incredibly important. So yes, we have new staffs of compliance people, but just getting people to think and as as they as they pull in the data and how to how to use it in the right and appropriate ways.
Marty Swant: So in the last bit here, I want you to talk about kind of the future of tech. Obviously, we're here at Web Summit. I know a lot of brands have been building in house, like labs, studios are partnering with agencies to create ways of thinking about emerging tech, whether it's AR VR, a lot of voice stuff. I'm kind of curious if each of you could talk about how are you trying to foster innovation and what's maybe one example of using an Emerging Technology within your brands. 
Katia Bassi: In Lamborghini we use now virtual reality to go into the details and specs, the car, for example. This is something that the clients really appreciate. Because sometimes they're not able to come to some targeted is where the number of units quarter is that of course, it's an experience itself. And therefore to try to get closer to them, we use virtual reality so they can be really immerse in that atmosphere.
Marty Swant: Sure, awesome.
Gail Heimann: Yeah, I think I mean it recently, we took our innovation groups of people and kind of move them to the center of the company. So innovation could permeate everything we do, not again not to cloister it, but to push it through. I wanted one of the interesting things we did relatively recently with AR and VR and I think when you think of AR and VR, you think of the headsets and you think of gamers and you think of all those things, but we used it to help people feel what it was like to have a Michael And a headache and so so in a very to create empathy in a very different among a very different group of people so, and that previous success when I was for a brand called excedrin, 
Marty Swant: Cool. And lastly?
Fernando Machado: We like we are very focused on Joon two pillars, when it comes to type one pillar is to improve guest service, right? I mean, so we are playing with mobile ordering payment, we are playing with customization. In digital channels, you're playing with cell phone in kiosk with artificial intelligence playing with the motherboard and things like this. And the other is to engage and communicate with, with with people. And I have example most you know, like a Warped Tour, which you touched. I think it was a really cool example that this mix of communication, bragging rights of doing something fun and commerce, we did burn that ad, which was something really fun with augmented reality. I don't have time to explain it here. But if you search on YouTube and add case study, you will see the stuff in there is much more common. So on various Excited about technology on this two specific pillars.
Marty Swant: Awesome. Well, that's all the time we have. Thank you. Thank you to all three of you and thanks for being here. Yeah. Thank you.