
Their stories are more importantly the ideas behind their companies. And we think that they are just incredible.
The founders of these startups are backstage right now. They're up early, and they're eager to tell you about what they've done and how they did it. So let's get started.
Okay, we just have the name okay. Coverflex Please let me introduce the first startup of the day Coverflex. They are a b2b insure tech company with subscription plans for modern companies. The co founder and the CEO will come out on stage now please welcome Nuno Pinto.
Good morning Web Summit. We all know how much time passion and commitment it takes to build a company. as we speak. 58% of companies worldwide are currently uninsured against the three top risks. So look at your left, please. Or look at your right. Probably and stats tell us that probably you are sitting right to someone whose company is at risk. Or even better, probably, it's your company that is currently at stake. So how can we change this? We are Coverflex and we are building insurances for our generation. Coverflex is the full is the first full digital solution with monthly subscription plans for companies with a fixed cost per month per employee. Simple as that, with Coverflex insurances are as easy as buying as Netflix. We believe in having our own products using data and AI to improve the underwriting process. But let's get the birth of We are on a mission to give managers and interpreters that time back. And to make the HR departments work easier by combining a fully dedicated customer support team with the automated dashboard. But we have a bigger vision. We want to transform the way companies and employees are connected. And we want Coverflex to be the platform to go when you need insurances, financial services, or even financial or employee perks and benefits. everything in one place for the entire team. And that's why we are cover and flex. And today we are really proud of announcing that we have just closed our international seed round with an amazing group of investors leaded by Breega shared our vision and our vision. So now it's up to you. Do you want to have peace of mind while growing your company go to our, we are starting out a better version. So go to our website, register your company and have an amazing guest. One year free insurance free mobile insurance for your phone. We are Coverflex. I am Nuno and let's make a world of safe companies together. Thank you Web Summit.
Raise your hand if you have a dog, pet dog. How many people have one? Okay, quite a few. Great. Our next company is a Portuguese startup from Porto called Barkyn. Their subscription service for dogs Barkyn delivers all products and services a pet needs online and offline with a subscription plan. Let's welcome founder Andre Jordao to the stage.
Morning Web Summit I'm Andre, founder of Barkyn, a subscription service delivering happiness to pets with food and health combined. So you pay us 40 euros a month, and you'll receive a box with customized food for your dog. Plus, a dedicated vet a dedicated doctor on our platform.
We've impacted more than 26,000. More than 26,000 customers in Spain, Italy and Portugal. And each month, at least 68% of our revenues come from repeated customers. But Barkyn is so much more than a business. It's part of our customers lives. We've ignited local communities in 14 European cities where our customers gather to socialize every week. We make a difference by being there with our community, a personal message from our vet or a specific recipe for for each dog at every life stage, and now, we take into, we're taking it to a Weldon level.
We'll be closer to our customers and what's closer than going into a Holmes will be there we just smart box connected to our hub that knows exactly when your dog needs a full refill, or just the right advice.
We present to you the magic box, a smart box connected to an app that assures your dog's happiness and your peace of mind. The magic box is an elegant and durable container for your dogs. That helps you save time plus improve your dog's health. It learns how you feed your dog, predicting the exact date and time you'll need to refill. No more clicks or checkouts. Food tailored to your dog will arrive at your doorstep automatically. Using sophisticated AI. The Magic Box also gives you advice on your dog's diet and shares personalized tips for a healthier and happier life. And all of this is controlled by you through our intuitive app. In a nutshell, true happiness in a box Barkyn let the magic begin.
Let the magic begin because ecommerce is becoming super cold and transactional. We just speaking to robots. At Barkyn we want to bring human connection back to e commerce out of a market we love. We didn't experience may just for you. Thank you.
So next up we have a company called Sound Particles. They are CGI like software for sound design. They're capable of using particle systems to generate thousands of sounds in a virtual 3d world. So please welcome to the stage the CEO, Nuno Fonseca.
Good morning.
Computer graphics was probably the biggest revolution that's happening in industry over the last 50 years, from animation to visual effect from video games to VR. But now imagine if you could use the same technology, not for image, but for sound. Because that's exactly what we do at Sound Particles. We create 3d software that brings the power of computer graphics into the sound world and by doing this, you are able to do things that would simply not be possible to create before Generating thousands of sounds around you with only a few clicks. And by doing this, you unleash the creativity of hundreds and thousands of sound artists in the entire world from Hollywood to simple garage band. And for instance, imagine that you in a few minutes able to generate epic soundscapes like these ones.
Currently, Sound Particles is already using all major Hollywood Studios. For instance Game of Thrones, have use our software to create the sound of the epic battles of the last season. Or, for instance, Disney is using Sound Particles to bring to life the magic sounds of Maleficent 2 or Ralph breaks the internet. Many other movies like Aqua man, Wonder Woman already played one from Spielberg. But Sound Particles is not only for sound, and for Cinema and Television. A lot of well known video game companies are using Sound Particles to create the epic sounds for their games. And also people using it in theater and virtual reality and music and Sam, even using Sound Particles to create that the set for machine learning and allowing them to machine learning in terms of applications for voice recognition. So from Portugal to the rest of the world. I welcome you to the fantastic world of Sound Particles.
Alright, our next company, Hugo have built a platform for your team to save and share meeting insights in real time. So hear more, please welcome CEO and co founder, Josh Lowy.
In every business, how you meet determines how you work, meetings influence everything. The way decisions are made, tasks are done. They were customer knowledge is generated, and there were company culture is reinforced. The problem though, is the way that we meet is broken. It's no longer connected to the way that we work. Look at how we work in 2019. The average company is using 100 28 different SAS tools 90% of them serving just one department. And remote is the new normal. Three quarters of millennial managers have remote employees. So we're seeing two problems, data fragmentation, and team fragmentation. That's why the way that you made is broken. Everyone's looking through a keyhole when they need to see the big picture. Most meetings end up with nothing done or decided a lot of hours spent of little value to those outside of the room. So you keep pages of notes, you manage your own task list, and you send a lot of emails, but you just end up with isolated docs and gigabytes of audio that no one looks at. At the same time. Teamwork is breaking down with so many tools in the business and colleague spread across different offices or another time zone altogether. That's exactly why we built Hugo centralized. searchable notes that actually connects your colleagues and their tools. Hugo turns that overlooked activity of taking meeting notes into a seamless way to connect how you made to how you work. Let's look at how Hugo makes your notes shareable and actionable by connecting to your colleagues and their tools. In real time, you can trigger in Asana task, you can sync Salesforce objects, and even posts to slack to update colleagues who weren't on the call. After your meeting, those same notes are transformed into customer and company intelligence that never gets lost. built on top of your calendar, Hugo uses meeting data to make everything highly searchable, organized first and foremost by your meeting attendees and the companies that they work for. Remembering that how you meet determines how you work, Hugo powers better process to with Team templates and collaborative agendas. Everyone shows up prepared and in the Node every single Gold time. Best of all, as you scale Hugo up, your information silos will break down. So next time you find yourself in a wasteful meeting, check out Hugo dot team. Thank you.
Next up is a company called Casafari. They track the entire real estate process by aggregating and matching properties from different sources. So please welcome the CEO of Casafari, Nils Henning.
Good morning, Lisbon. Thank you for attending the early session. My name is Nils Henning. I'm one of three founders of Casafari. And I'm going to tell you right now what we do. We bring transparency to the real estate industry, in opaque and chaotic markets by building the biggest and cleanest real estate database in the world. why we do this real estate is the biggest industry in the world. It's a 280 trillion industry. So it is three and a half times the global GDP. And unfortunately, it's still remained an analog times. So it's really not uncommon to visit an agency to visit a professional and they even don't work with a computer nowadays in 2019. This causes multiple problems. Number one fragmentation you can have in certain markets up to 15 different marketplaces. So if you want to buy a property in Spain, you need to have a look at at least for tu casa habitat clear business. com Milan owns us v book, Yellow Green Acres, Tov it and so on. So finding properties extremely painful. 50% of our properties in the market are not listed. In a marketplace, they're literally listed in thousands of real estate agent websites. And complete market information doesn't exist. It also leads to chaos. 80% of the properties are not listed exclusively on the market. So listed by 1015 2030 different agencies. 20% of these properties have different prices in the market. So watch out very careful. It's your most expensive purchase in life that you don't overpay and classifieds often advertise the same property multiple times with different data. So it's very difficult to get a feeling of the price and the location. Our solution is machine learning a data collection and the duplication so we identify the same property in multiple sources clean it up and bring it together it looks in the intellect Skyscanner Tiago and buy this. We are building like I said the most complete and biggest database in real estate State, actually, we attract already more than 13 million properties. And by doing this, we connect already all the players all the stakeholders in the real estate industry to it. So from brokers, to rehab to buyer agents to insurance companies, banks, evaluators funds, everyone who hasn't eaten real estate. And about the company, we tracked so far 500 million properties. We're headquartered in the beautiful Lisbon as well in Madrid and HAkA in Budapest. We raised 5 million in capital and our first financing round just recently from Lake star who made their first investment in Portugal and wrong to capital Toronto ventures. And already all major brands and real estate work with Casafari Thank you so much. I have a good day. Bye.
Alright, our next speaker is Sam Al-Mukhtar, the co founder and CEO of Geomiq and intelligent platform that provides instant quotes and instant ordering of custom manufactured parts. Come on out, Sam. 
Hi, I'm Sam, CEO and co founder of Geomiq. We're an online manufacturing platform that the fastest moving engineering teams used to build the world's most innovative products.
Four years ago, I was lucky enough to be designing some of the world's most incredible products to go on the world's largest superyacht shown here. It should have been a career defining moment. Unfortunately, I was bound by the constraints of suppliers around the world, both lead times and quality. There was 250,000 pound a week late fees that I was personally responsible for. Parts were arriving Late and they didn't fit together.
I literally found myself in tears.
I then went away, I found out that it wasn't just me who had this problem. designers, engineers, and purchasing departments around the world also suffer this.
This is turn. This is a product that is designed to be simple. It's a home automation award winning product. Turn is in fact, made of 35 individual components. All of them are different. All of them are custom. And all of them have to be prototype prototype again, before going to production. It took five years to get this product into the market. This is an ugly slide. This is the Current workflow that a design engineer has to go through to get their product to market. Start on the left, and work right. It's all done by phone and email. It's extremely inefficient, and it's extremely painful. Welcome genomic. Genomic is a revolutionary platform that you can upload 2d and 3d CAD files to get instant quotes or quotes within 24 hours. We have a number of vetted suppliers and so you guarantee you get to get your pass on time and inspect. We have a Rappi Configurator you can very easily place an order. And once you've placed an order, you have an Amazon star tracking bar. There's no more phone and email. Average quote time is 24 hours. Average lead time is five days and we can get products to market four and a half times faster. We work working with some of the world's greatest VCs also believe in our vision We're really excited to take it to the next level with them. We're looking to build the world's greatest team. So if anybody would like to join us on our journey, then feel free to contact me after my email sam@geomiq.com Thank you for your time. 
Okay, our next company is a startup called Evervault and it's founded by an incredible 19 year old named Shane Curran. Evervault is a cloud based secure processing product and aims to take privacy away from compliance and turn it into a product. So please, let's welcome Shane Curran to the stage.
Really long walk out.
At Evervault, we spend a really unhealthy amount of time thinking about data privacy, and after all that, thank you And mulling over the conclusion we came to his last dinner privacy is really hard. It's been estimated that there's been 6.6 billion accounts hacked so far. That's one for almost everyone on the planet. And it's basically impossible to avoid all these stories of data breaches, hacks on everything else that goes with us. And it's a major problem for both companies and individuals alike. And the reality is everyone cares about data privacy, I'd be willing to hazard a guess and say that pretty much everyone here does. And it's no longer just something that compliance teams are worrying about. Getting caught up in alphabet soup of like GDPR, CCPA, PCI, all this kind of stuff doesn't matter. And really, really good product teams are now thinking about privacy as a core feature of what they're building, and rightly so. And data privacy needs to be baked into the stock on the fabric of how everyone builds applications. But so far, the toolkit for doing that is just really really terrible, it sucks. And we've created this new way of thinking about the problem, which we like to call privacy cages. A privacy cage is basically an environment that lets you put your code and run all the processing on it. But it has no external access, where a hacker or any kind of data breach can happen. And we've built a product around this. And, you know, I could talk about this all day long, but we just really think that data privacy should be boiled down to a flow, as simple as charging your credit cards were to pull into the cloud. yet so far, that's not the case. So we spent a lot of time building what we like to call the pragmatic privacy Manifesto. And that's broken into a nice, easily digestible components that anyone regardless of whether you're technical or non technical, can start thinking about the problem. And you can think about it in a way that makes it really easy to bake into your products. You know, we follow the pragmatic privacy Manifesto, but in general, we hope The industry as a whole begins to follow this new standard. And we've published this on our new blog called uncaged. You can go access it now if you'd like to learn more, and we love to keep the conversation going offline, and figure out how we can solve data privacy, not just for us, but for everyone in the world. Thank you.
Amazing, amazing. Next up, we have nPlan, who learns how previous construction products performed to predict the outcomes of future projects. Please put your hands together for the co founder and CEO, Dev Amratia.
Hi, Web Summit. I'm Dev and I'm the CEO of nPlan. I'm here to talk to you about how nPlan solves a big problem in construction. Big engineering projects means Big delays. The Berlin Brandenburg Airport is now nine years behind schedule. The Tesla giga factory in Nevada should have been operating at full capacity by now. And the battery power station in London should have opened in 1986. These aren't stories of mismanagement, their stories of unmanageable complexity. We're expecting humans to understand the complex construction projects that no human can. And that's because there are hundreds of thousands of activities on every project, from pouring concrete to installing cables, and each will be different every time asking someone to figure out how long the project will take is like trying to find the needle in the haystack when you come to think of it. It's amazing that these projects are completed at all and nPlan understands complex construction projects like no human can. We have assembled the largest proprietary collection of project schedules anywhere on the planet, representing $600 billion of construction spend from the largest construction companies in the world. We know what was planned to happen, and what actually happened on those projects. Our technology serves a really simple function. With the data we have, were able to say which activities will go wrong by how much and perhaps more importantly, we can say how long a construction project will really take. And our clients need this. One of these clients is high speed to the largest construction project the United Kingdom has done since the Victorian era and whilst have been in the press for lots of the wrong reasons recently, we stand to see Then between two and $4 billion. And that's just one project. And nPlan operates at the intersection. We serve clients of construction, construction companies, and sponsors and finances of construction, not just giving us three times the market, but also perhaps more excitingly, putting us in prime position to be able to reshape the construction industry by creating a market that is based on trust rather than opinion. I'm Dev and I have an incredible team of 16 in London. If you'd like to know more, come and talk to us. Thank you.
So our next company, I'm going to introduce the founder Sid Khattri, the co founder and CEO of Vertoe. Vertoe is an on demand short term luggage storage service. I'll keep it short. Please welcome Sid from Vertoe.
Hi, I'm Sid. I'm the co founder and CEO of Vertoe. And we're on a mission to give you your instant storage space, anywhere, anytime. So you have the feeling of cloud storage, but for physical things in the real world. A few years ago, my co founder and I were on a multi City West Coast trip, with la being our final stop. After checking out what was supposed to be this super exciting day, turned into an absolute nightmare when we got stuck lugging three bags for six hours and time ran out. And this happens all too often while you're attending your favorite sporting event or concert that doesn't allow large box inside, or you have to carry stuff around because of your daily job. are just that gym bag that you're lugging throughout the day. There is no good solution in the market. If you want to store your stuff for a few hours or a few days. Traditional storage needs to lock you into monthly and expensive contracts. Plus, access is not instant. That's why we created Vertoe. Vertoe connects people who are looking to store their bags and personal items for a few hours or days. Do nearby local shops and businesses that have space. Let me show you how it works. Here is Alex. He just landed in the city and has a few hours to kill. And guess what Alex is a Vertoe customer. He opens his phone and searches for a location near him finds the one that books find the story finds the one that meets his needs. And with one click Checkout boxes instance store space, Weil dropping off. Alex secures his items with uniquely coded tamper proof seals and gets the freedom to experience Vertoe was designed from the ground up to be as frictionless as possible. in three easy steps, Alex is able to find book and access safe storage space instantly for less than $6 per day. And just like with Alex restored more than 250,000 items to date after going to Techstars last year, we now work with 500 location partners across 30 cities globally. And user reception has been fantastic. And media is also taking notice. This is an enormous market opportunity as we create the short term storage industry with Our go to market use case that's travel. There are 1.4 billion long distance trips that rely on flights, trains and buses just in the US alone, affecting hundreds of millions of users. And this is just the beginning as locals have been increasingly using Vertoe while attending events or when they have to carry stuff around because of their daily job. In the long run, we believe our network of locations is going to serve numerous ondemand storage needs in society.
If you want to help us create the short term storage industry, please come. Thank you.
Alright, our next company offers their customers a collaborative data platform that helps companies build more valuable partnerships to tell us about the potential of his company. Please welcome co founder and CEO of Crossbeam to the stage, Bob Moore. 
Good morning Web Summit. Thank you for having us here. My name is Bob Moore. I'm the CEO and co founder of Crossbeam. Crossbeam is a collaborative data platform. We help your company turn your partnership ecosystem into a scalable, powerful, go to market machine. And we do that by solving an age old problem in the universe of partnerships, data sharing,
How is it that you can identify things like how many customers you have in common and who they are? Or if then when your sales pipelines overlap with your partners in an era of data security, privacy and compliance, especially post GDPR? The answer is Crossbeam. Data escrow service, a platform that allows companies to combine their data sets and A secure third party environment, analyze that combine data and surface insights and actionable outputs while keeping the rest of their data private and secure. It's a really simple platform. You connect data from your primary sources of data like Salesforce. com and HubSpot, and others define populations in segments inside of those data sets that you want to compare to your partners data. And then you partner up. It's like LinkedIn for partnerships. And in the midst of those partnerships, you can identify these actionable outputs. So what are people actually doing with this platform, they're generating more leads, they're collaborating more closely with partners in CO selling and co marketing activities, and they're retaining their accounts for longer and creating more sticky platforms and products. You can also help identify who the most valuable potential partners are with Crossbeam by looking at the total addressable market Kate of your combined customer basis. If this sounds interesting to you, check us out at get Crossbeam calm or you can find us in pavilion three booth e through 19. All week. Thank you so much.
Okay, our next speaker is Jaleh Rezaei the CEO and co founder of Mutiny. Mutiny helps companies personalize their website for each visitor in order to close more sales. So please give a warm welcome to Jaleh.
The biggest problem companies face is growth.
Today companies spend $300 billion on digital ads to drive people to their website and another hundred billion dollars on marketing technology. Jeez to convert them. Yet 99% of those people bounced because they didn't immediately understand why the product is so great for them. Mutiny helps companies personalize their website for each visitor to convert more of those customers with a more compelling experience. For example, amplitude, a product analytics company uses Mutiny to customize their websites, customer testimonials and logos based on the visitors industry. A consumer tech company will see instacart and Twitter, whereas a b2b company will see box and Cisco. This has increased their leads by 54%. Because people want to know how are their peers using the product. My co founder and I experienced this problem firsthand when we were early employees at gusto. I led marketing And I learned quickly that while our product was a really great fit for a lot of different businesses, the same marketing message didn't necessarily resonate. And when we try to tailor the experience for everyone, we learned why so few people do it. It's really hard to personalize a site we had to know who's visiting, prioritize between all the different visitor segments, change their experience, and measure and iterate. And this requires a ton of engineers, data scientists, UX designers and analysts. There's no marketing team that has ready access to these technical expertise. And that's exactly why we build Mutiny to solve all of these problems in one place with software. Mutiny identifies visitors in a compliant way with pre built data integrations. It analyzes the websites traffic and conversion data to recommend the highest impact segments for personalization has a visual editor to change the experience of any web page, and it measures the results. And all of this is enabled with a single line of code added to the website. Today, we work with some of the fastest growing companies in the market such as segment and brands. And for many of these companies, personalization generates more leads than AdWords, Facebook and LinkedIn combined. So go to Mutiny HQ. com and learn how to turn your website into your number one growth channel. Thank you.
Alright, our final company in the morning is Shleep, an app based sleep coaching platform in the health tech sector and it enables people and organizations to reap the benefits of better sleep. speaking today on center stage is the co founder Shleep. Joeran Albers Come on out.
Let's start with a little experiment. Please raise your hands if you needed an alarm clock this morning. There are many hands up. And that's the problem. Actually, we believe we're getting something fundamentally wrong in this world. We're not sleeping enough. That's what we've build a company with a simple mission, helping the world sleep better. Today, I want to tell you why eight hours of sleep will impact everything. Now, some of you might say eight hours you're on that's impossible, right? So I have so much work on my plate. I want to spend time with your loved ones and also need some time for myself. And you're right about that. hear you. I used to work very long working hours when I was a consultant myself. But we are also all getting it wrong. Because every minute of sleep loss directly impacts how much we get done, the quality of our work and what we make out of our private lives. To illustrate this, let's assume any eight hours of sleep, but you're getting all these six. Research shows that after only four days, you will perform like someone who just drink four beers. So you basically drunk at the nasty thing is, you'll not realize it. Because the CPF brain loses health inside. We should all learn from leaders like Satya and Jeff who do make sleep a priority. And research shows that they cannot sleep more because they are in this position. No, they are in this position because they've always made sleep a priority. So you can literally sleep your way to the top There is sleep deprivation epidemic out there. It costs companies three to 5000 US dollars per employee every single year. That's what science says. And at Shleep we believe that the true number is four times higher than that. So we want to change this. Our team of neuroscientists and psychologist bring the latest research to employees all over the world with our digital sleep coaching platform. And we've shown to reduce sleep loss by up to 40%. After only eight weeks, and waiting for more. What can we Shleep will make you become a better version of yourself. And your organization will benefit from more inspiring leaders work this full of energy and better relationships among colleagues. Look, we know it's not easy to change, and even harder to change work cultures. That's what we hope so please reach out to Hello@shleep.com so that you won't need that alarm clock anymore. Thank you. Okay.
Thank you, Joeran. That was great. That's going to conclude this morning's remarks for breakout startups and as we mentioned, will be back here at lunchtime, to show you some of the most promising companies in the world from the growth stage of this conference. And just coming up in a few minutes, we're going to kick off the conference with the for the first official day of Web Summit. 2019. Stay in your seats.
We're gonna hear from Amazon, Facebook, Wikipedia, Canva, all these great companies. So stick around. We'll be right back.