
The quest to save the planet was dealt yet another blow when America pulled out of the Paris Climate accord in 2016. And since then scientists are increasingly pessimistic over the future of our life on Earth. So we have to ask ourselves whether it's now too late to avert catastrophe on a global scale. And if we are able to avoid a climate catastrophe, well, how are we going to do it? So our next panel are working tirelessly, tirelessly to deliver a roadmap for the world. So please welcome to the stage Cheng Lei of CGTN Europe, convener of mission 2020, Christiana Figueres and Google's Chief Sustainability Officer, Kate Brandt.
Hi, everyone, great to be back on center stage always makes me feel like a rock star. But these are the real rock stars of helping us save the planet. So, Kate has actually helped to green the US Navy, as well as the White House. And she's now doing that at Google, not just for Google itself, but Google's tools so that it has an impact globally. But my question is, this week we saw the US formally withdraw from the Paris accord. How can we still save the planet when we don't have buy in from the world's largest economy? Kate?
Yeah. Well, first of all, just to say I mean, such an honor to share the stage with Christiana who made Paris possible and I think your your Impact being felt. So I feel like big hand for Christiana for all the amazing work she did on Paris.
And so I think, you know, we we've seen this coming right since 2017. We knew this was the path. And I think as our CEO, Sundar Pichai said at the time, you know, we find it very disappointing, and we believe it's critical, continue to build a cleaner and healthier world for everyone. So we're very much staying the course. And I think, you know, now all the great work Christiana is doing with many businesses we are aligned with we are still in it's critical for business to keep doing this work. And frankly, we've been at this at Google for a really long time. We committed to operate as a carbon neutral company over a decade ago in 2007. So for us, it makes business sense it's the responsible thing to do. And we're going to stay the course.
Christiana?
Can like jump in on that. So the White House has started the process of withdrawal from Paris and they will complete that a year from now a day after the next election in the United States. So first thing that we can do is actually for those who live in the United States, and are US citizens, Be really careful about how you vote. That's probably number one. And point number two. 
Point point number two is that actually, despite the White House not having any lights on on any issue that is worthwhile, despite that 60% of the economy of the United States continues to decarbonize, including Google. And the those players in the economy that includes cities, states, corporations, universities, financial institutions, continue to decarbonize because they know it's good for their own bottom line. That's why they're doing it. All the rest of us. I actually invite us all to let go of this obsession that we have. You know, I think when I hear those announcements, the picture that I get in my head is we're going down a highway with many different lanes. There are speed lanes, some are in the high speed lane, Google, some are in the slow speed lane but there are many different lanes and everybody is moving in the same direction everybody has chosen their own vehicle of engagement. Then there is one vehicle rather large that steps out moves over to the lane to the what is it called the lane on the other side, that lane where you you know if you have shoulder, the shoulder thank you one vehicle moves over to the shoulder flashes orange lights, and then everybody does this rubbernecking and looks over at the vehicle that is flashing orange lights. You know what happens if you're driving a vehicle and you look over your you could crash. So that vehicle that is on the shoulder lane is there because they have a problem. Let's let them figure out that problem. They're causing a problem for themselves. There are no other vehicles, no other country following that example. Just let them be. And let us continue on the course that we know we have to have. Okay, this is not going to stay there forever in the White House.
So we don't get sidetracked. 
Don't get sidetracked.
We stay the course. What exactly is Google doing to make it easier for people to save the planet?
Yeah, so it Google as I said, you know, the way that we think about sustainability is really a two part strategy. First, it's about striving to build sustainability into everything we do in our global operations. But also we want to think about how we utilize technology to enable everyone, individuals, policymakers, businesses, NGOs, to build a more sustainable world together. So we're looking at opportunities at the community scale. We have A wonderful tool that we, that I last time I saw Christiana, we were just launching at the global climate action summit called the environmental insights Explorer. And this is a tool that we partnered with the global covenant of mayor's to build. And the idea behind it is very simple, which is that cities represent over 70% of global climate emissions. So if we are able to address these challenges that cities are having to support them with data and insights, we can take a huge chunk out of climate. And so what this tool enables is to get better insights into transportation emissions, building emissions, and then the potential of rooftops across the city for solar. And so we've now rolled this tool out and 50 cities just as of this week, including several here in Europe, in Finn, Gall county and Ireland, in Cracow, Poland, in Birmingham and several others. So we see that as one of the really concrete things we're doing, and then there's many other examples that I'm sure we can get into later in the conversation.
Christiana, now, the common thread Is that public policy stifles and controls and technology disrupts and empowers? How can the two work together in public private partnerships to help us save the planet?
Well, first of all, we're not saving the planet. The planet is 4.5 billion years old, I was driving ourselves invited to a happy birthday party to the planet, big cake. 4.5 billion years worth, okay. And we're not saving the planet. The planet will be here after we leave if we decide to be so stupid to actually make conditions completely impossible for us. So we're not saving the planet, she's fine. She will survive in a very different form. What is the problem is are we going to survive? Are we going to actually be able to thrive? Are companies going to be able to be profitable? Will people still be able to inhabit the land in which they are? Those are will they have to be forced to migrate out of their own out of their territory, because it's become so hot food scarcity, water scarcity, that they can stay there. That is what we're actually trying to avoid. As 101 11,000 scientists have just come out to say, emergency on climate change, we have to get with it. And it's actually three things that we need to come together. We need certainly technology. And that is big tech, but it's also other kinds of technology, energy technology, certainly energy efficiency, many other all of the technologies that will help us including high tech for restoring degraded lands. So technology plays a big role. policy has to come hand in hand in order to make it easier for the big tech companies, but also for cities and others smaller jurisdictions to align themselves into a decarbonisation path, but then we also need finance. So this is actually a three Part effort. It's a it's a stool with three legs. It's finance, technology and policy. And the stool that sits on top is customer preference and customer signals to governments, to corporations and to financial institutions.
So we can all do something. Now, Kate, I was curious how you managed to green, the Navy and the white house because working with bureaucracies, one of my worst nightmares?
Yeah, I think it my experiences and all the roles I've had doing this work is that you really need two things. You need leadership at the top, you need someone that is really committed and clearing the path. And then you need the grassroots you need that engagement from whether it's an employee base or a citizen base to really demand the change and help to drive the change. And so I had the honor of serving as the energy advisor to the Secretary of the Navy Ray Mavis several years ago, and we set out a very ambitious goal which is that we wanted the Navy to operate on 55 alternative energy by 2020. So that was everything from advanced biofuels for ships and planes, a gigawatt of renewable energy for military installations. And even looking at how we can increase energy security and loss of, you know, and decrease loss of life and a theater environment by changing our relationship to fuel. So I think, you know, when we have these kind of amazing leaders with the vision people like Christiana, there's so much that we can do.
And when you don't, Christiana?
well, then when you don't you send them a little message because this actually has to be both top down and bottom up. You know, if we had a lot of time to change the track that we on, then we could say, Okay, let's go for the systemic changes, because those are the ones that have the most impact, but we've actually run out of time. And so because of that, we need to have it be systemic changes top down, but also bottom up, and that's why I am very, very grateful for millions of people, mostly young People but not all young people who are out there on the streets, demonstrating their rage and their anger about the fact that we lazy adults have not done our job. And I'm very glad to be reminded of that every single day.
Kate, where the Web Summit, I've seen a lot of startups and the solutions, not a lot of them are focused on climate change. And also for the ones that are in different businesses. How do they implement sustainability and circularity from the early stages of the technologies?
Yeah, so I think it's so amazing to be amongst this community of startups here. And we had the opportunity to make an announcement yesterday about our new Google first startup accelerator that's focused on the Sustainable Development Goals. So what we're looking to do is empower social impact startups starting in EMEA, the Middle East and Africa, to help provide training around technology so to give better access to tools like AI, but also to help it eyes and think about how do you monetize the social impact startup? And also, how do you get more access to capital to grow those businesses? So you know it Google, we're very connected to our startup roots. We haven't been a startup for a long time. But we really want to help to fuel this community and support them and really support them and and utilizing technology to build these businesses that can go out in the world and have Impact.
Christiana, asking you this backstage? When I grew up in impoverished China in the 70s, we were leaving very eco friendly lifestyles, very little energy usage, very little meat consumption, but it wasn't exactly comfortable. So how do you balance out individual's needs for this comfortable lifestyle with being eco responsible?
Well, the good thing is that we don't have to choose. And it's actually quite remarkable that decarbonizing our products, our value chains or supply chains, our services, actually does two things that At the same time, number one, it really puts a very firm base under long term value because there's no doubt that we are in a decarbonizing society and the decarbonizing the economy. And there is less and less tolerance for high carbon assets, products or services. And so those will lose value very soon, let's hope that we can transition smoothly without jumping to distress. And those are the companies that align themselves there are the ones small companies or large companies are the ones that are actually going to have business continuity at the same time. So that's profit right. But at the same time, addressing climate change is actually synonymous with addressing poverty. Because if the to take the example of electricity, which is the easiest to explain, if the legacy electricity industry which is fossil fuels, how been able to address poverty had been able to electrify 1 billion people on this earth, that's still in the year 2018 19 still do not have electricity and hence, are still in abject poverty. If they could do it, they would have done it 2030 or 40 years ago, because they've been added for a long time. They can't do it. Because the systems that they use the long grids are too expensive, they can't extend those lines to the very, very disseminated population that is in poverty, you can only do that with renewable energy, you can only put a little solar panel on people's roofs, it doesn't matter where you live. So we're actually at moment a very exciting moment in which actually, it is entirely possible that within 10 to maybe 15, I'm hoping 10 we can actually electrify every single home on this planet. And that already helps to bring those people out of abject poverty because it gives them at least the minimum of quality of life. So We can do two things with addressing climate change, right? We can have profitability stability, and we can address poverty. Who doesn't like that?
The coal mines, and the oil fields wouldn't like that.
Well, this is true, but you know what they've had their time that they've been around. I'm 63. I'm already at that age and which people shouldn't be saying, Thank you very much, Christiana, we're now going to put you in a retirement home, you've done your thing. Off you go. That's what we should be doing with the fossil fuels. Right? We should say thank you very much, because actually, they did give us all of this. They have given us an incredible amount of development and, you know, creature comforts and so we shouldn't blame them because they didn't know at the time. We should thank them, honor them for what they have done and say thank you. That's enough. Off you go into the retirement done next.
Do you think that's feasible? Kate? It's such a part of many national economies.
I think what we're seeing is tremendous penetration of renewable energy globally, you know, costs coming down dramatically having access to carbon free energy and clean energy in many more markets around the world. And I think a key piece of that has been the role of corporate renewable power buying. So you know, we're members of a large consortium called the renewable energy buyers alliance of hundreds of companies that have committed to match 100% of their energy with renewables. We've been doing this since 2010. We're the largest corporate purchaser of renewable energy. And our philosophy has been how can we use our demand for electricity to help green grids around the world to build consortiums with other companies to partner with utilities to partner with policymakers to really push this change, so it works for everyone so we get cleaner, healthier electricity, and so We can solve for climate.
So how does this figure into the whole concept of different levels of development, for example, developing nations with low production costs, that will be using more energy and they probably have dirtier energy, and then there will be more polluting. And they have more fragile economies and populations, and they're making the cheap goods for developed nations. And this is all part of the global economy right now. How is that going to change?
Well, and that's why it is so wonderful that in countries certainly like India, and increasingly like China, renewable energy in particular, to be very specific solar energy is actually cheaper than installed coal. Let me say that again. new installation of solar is cheaper than installed coal, just on a Localyze cost of energy comparison, right? Because as Kate says, the cost of energy is coming. down. And in case you haven't noticed, the sun never sends us a bill for that. Has anybody ever received a bill from the sun for their solar energy? Has anybody ever received the bill from the wind? You know, the fuel has a very predictable cost zero. So the only cost in renewable energy is actually the installation of the infrastructure. That's why it will come down in price. Conversely, fossil fuels, in case you haven't noticed, are very, very volatile in their price completely unpredictable. And in fact, you can bet on that continuing to be the case. You can also bet on a very, very predictable price of renewable fuels. And that's zero. And many countries are beginning to realize that and developing countries I come from a developing country myself, in Costa Rica, we produce all our electricity with renewables. YA because we have them thank heavens, but also because it's cheaper, it's safer. It's much more healthy for our Quality. And we don't have to import these fossil fuels that are getting more expensive every day. So it just makes fundamental sense, in particular, for developing countries.
Okay, we have two and a half minutes left. If you were to advise startups and individuals, three things to do, what would they be?
Yeah. So, you know, we've been thinking about this a lot of the role of individual action, because we think it's critical to empower people. I think we're all very concerned about the science that what we're learning, but also we all have a role to play in the solution. And so one tool that we've felt that we think can be really helpful to people and putting the science based information in their hands is called the earth plan your planet. So we teamed up with our local Science Museum, the California Academy of Sciences, and we said, Look, we have three major impacts on the planet as an individual, how we use energy, how we use water and food waste. And so this is a tool that's designed to be used At home, it's user friendly. It's fun for kids as well. And it gives you tips like how to stock your fridge so your food doesn't spoil as quickly. And that turning down your hot water heater actually can save you a lot of energy and other simple tools like that. And so that's something you know, it's just one example. But that we think is really critical to give people data driven tools that they can use in their daily lives to reduce their own impact. And that actually adds up to be incredible.
Christiana?
I'm actually quite grateful for them too, because the fact is that every single one of us, as individuals, as members of a family, as members of a community, as CEOs of companies, as investors, in every role that we play, and we play many different roles at the same time on this Fantastic Planet. Every single one of us has to, it's not, maybe it would be nice to know every single one of us has to cut in half the emissions that we are producing today, in 10 years, so that doesn't mean you have to go to zero, you're not going to turn into a little angel with no footprint on this earth. Don't worry about that you're far from that danger. But we do have to cut our footprint into half over the next 10 years. Frankly, that's doable. And if you have a calculator where you can go and simply figure out what is the carbon footprint of yourself, your home, your company, your flights, your whatever, whatever you're going to do, and then put a plan, put a plan in place of how you're going to cut in half the that footprint by the year 2030. If we all did that, we would address climate change in time.
Thank you so much to our eco rock stars Kate and Christiana. And I hope you feel energized and empowered by their words. Thank you