
You've been enjoying the first day of Web Summit as much as I have what a fantastic morning. We've had just incredible speakers already. My name is Casey Lau, as you probably know, I'm the co host of RISE.
And I'm Sunil Sharma, the managing director of Techstars Toronto and the co host of collision.
This afternoon we've got more incredible speakers coming up for you including Manik Gupta, Ronaldinho, Gillian Tans and Katherine Maher.
But first, you're going to meet what we consider the startups that everyone in the world is going to be talking about from 2020 and beyond. Dozens of the world's leading investors also think so.
At this time every day for the next three days, we'll be showcasing the most rapidly scaling growth companies here at Web Summit. So let's get started.
So let me introduce you to a fellow Torontonian and our first speaker Alex Barrotti. The founder and CEO of Touch Bistro. Touch Bistro is an iPad based restaurant POS system, enabling owners to manage reservations and take orders instantly. So please welcome to the stage Alex Barrotti.
Good afternoon everyone. It is my pleasure to be here today at Web Summit to introduce you to Touch Bistro. Touch Bistro is the number one grossing iPad point of sale in over 40 countries on the Apple App Store. Today we have over 19,000 venues worldwide, representing some 35,000 deployed iPads. And we promised when you add up all of those venues worldwide we process over $11 billion in payments. We've won several awards including Best I've had point of sale five years running. We have a design patent on our inner face which we won a New York Design Award for. And twice now we've been voted Deloitte fastest 50 top growing companies in Canada. Today we have raised about 270 $5 million. And you can see a step curve every time we've been able to successfully raise and deploy capital. Those are our monthly venue ads. Today we add between five to 700 new venues each and every month. Restaurants is a massive market worldwide, there's some 15 million restaurants, and that includes everything from quick service, full service, food, trucks, catering, over the counter, you name it, and our goal is to reach all of those restaurants not just in North America, but worldwide, which is one of the reasons we're here today.
Restaurants are very complex organizations. There's a lot going on, there's multiple waiters clocking in clocking out, multiple orders being sent to various printers throughout the kitchen. There's a lot of stuff going on in the front of house. There's reservations orders to manage guests, a fury of activity in the kitchen. And of course all this has to be organized and managed with a specialized point of sale. And so today, Touch Bistro has a suite of products, touching everything from the front of house, which is of course our our classic point of sale that we started with. We have payment solutions, kiosk solutions, reservations, menu boards loyalty, all for the front of house for the back of house, we have scheduling staffing, payroll and inventory control. And in the back of house we have capital products and insights for the owners. That's it and look forward to telling you more about Touch Bistro, and I thank you all for having me here.
Our next company is a Finn French startup called PayFit. And they allow small and medium enterprises to easily and quickly pay their employees. That's what we have to make sure these these days speaking for PayFit today is co founder and CEO, Firmin Zocchetto. Please give them a warm welcome.
Hi, everyone. I'm Firmin Zocchetto CEO of PayFit I co founded this company with my two other co founders back in 2015. I'm super happy to be there to give you a few insights about PayFit. What is PayFit? PayFit is an integrated payroll and HR management software. So you must when you think about payroll, I guess you must think about how boring it is to pay employees to manage social declarations, and so on. In fact, it's not. We started in 2015 by inventing our own programming language. At that time, I was still at school at uni with my two other co founders, I was 22 and we decided to put all the complexity of the French legal system into one beautiful software. That was the beginning of PayFit Few months after that, we started to get our first customers that were enjoying payroll for the first time. That was a big, big, big time. Since then, we raised a couple million euros, 90 million euros. We convinced a few customers to use PayFit and we change a lot of lives. employees, CEOs, CFO, HR managers, a lot of people have their life that is today improved, thanks to PayFit we are in four countries, France for the beginning but then Germany, Spain, the UK and we are opening other countries in the coming in the coming months. As you can see, we are trusted by a 2000 customers all across Europe, you may know revolut monumental, as Yan Li This is only the beginning. PayFit in two years from now will be a company with 1000 employees. Today we are 400 will be all across Europe and maybe beyond. And we'll have a few thousand customers. But what is more important is what we want to build with PayFit. What is our vision?
With PayFit we
We want to make work a source of fulfillment for everyone. And we have two missions for that. First one is we want to build a company where PayFit is where our employees are strongly fulfilled. We are not just looking for growth. We also want to build a place where everyone can enjoy themselves working on a daily basis. So that's the first thing we want to give all the SMBs all these startups all over the world. An example of what is to build what it takes to build a very First Corinne, with nice company, Josie Finn is that thanks to everything that we're going to provide to SMBs, our product, our services, our knowledge, that isn't generally worked. We want to have millions of people leave a fulfilling work experience. And those two things are the things that made me proud and very happy to talk in front of you today. Thanks a lot, and have a good day. Thanks, everyone.
So our next speaker has come to us all the way from California. John Wolanin is the co founder and CTO of Dave.com, an online banking platform and a personal financial management app. Let's get John out onto the stage.
Hi there, I'm John Wolanin of Dave.com, where it's our mission to build approachable products that change people's financial lives. And I know that's a bold statement. But, you know, we've had product market fit pretty strongly in the short two years since we've launched. We've went from zero to four and a half million users in that short timeframe, where we are as a company in terms of our life cycle, we just closed our Series B with Norwest ventures. And that puts us in the unicorn club with a valuation of $1 billion. Now if you look at our hundreds of thousands positive five star reviews, you'll see that every single day someone refers to us as a lifesaver. Why do they do that? Because we help them in a time of desperate need when no one else in their life can in America 65% of Americans struggle between paychecks and they don't even have a few hundred dollars saved to cover an automatic, unexpected emergency. That means something like a flat tire can be the one thing that sets you into financial ruins. So we built a budget that automatically works for people who live paycheck to paycheck. It's centered around the paychecks and not around a monthly cycle set of fancy bar graphs or charts, we simply show you the lowest your bounce will get until payday. And you know, since I know you check your messages, likely more than your bank statements will send you a text ahead of time to alert you with an unexpected expense if that brings your account negative. In America, if you go negative that's $35 a pop every single time. It's a huge industry and banks make about $36 billion annually every year on those bank fees. Be now if I'm your personal CFO, I can not only help you reach expenses for so long. The other side of the equation, you have to make a little extra money as well. And that's why we built side hustle. With side hustle, we help over half a million users applied over 3 million jobs by introducing them to gig economy work in their neighborhood may sound weird for a FinTech product, to have a financial app that helps people gain employment. We're here to change people's financial lives. And so it only makes sense to our mission. Let's say none of that works, right? The tax, the budgeting, the little extra job on the side. We're here to disrupt the age old industry of borrowing money from a friend would advance you up to $75 and as low as $5 in just a few minutes, and there's no interest no credit check will say that again. No interest no credit check. All we do is ask for an optional tip if we helped you and to make it sweeter for every person. Its tip, why their planetary are donated a meal in your name. Now we're deepening our banking relationship with the launching of our own checking accounts. You know, like most checking accounts in the FinTech or not FinTech space. You can do anything you can through the app. But what you can do with a banking that you can't with others, as well actually reports the one time payment you usually make on time and it's usually your largest. And that's your rent. That can help increase your credit score by about 28 points. So as you can see here, today, we're building an ecosystem of financial products that help some largely underserved community. Thank you for inviting me all the way to listen to tell you about the research.
Next up is the hiring app that matches job seekers. Employers by location and other work criteria through its mobile messaging interface. Today co founder and CEO Polina Montano, of Job Today will tell us their story. Come on out.
Our next company presenting is called Clinc It's a conversational AI platform that enables enterprises to build human in the room level next Generation virtual assistance. Chief Operating Officer Lingjia Tang will tell us more please welcome her out to the stage.
Hi, it's great to be here and share with you the Clinc story and how conversational AI will change their world.
Okay, people have been fantasizing about talking to computers for decades, right? The reality is somewhat disappointing. We all use Siri Google assist. Alexa is only one turn question answering those not real conversation. They can't understand my messy language. Sometimes they just don't work. Right. 2014 I'm Jason and I, my co founder were professors of computing Science at the University of Michigan ways open source the software called serious just like what Apple lawyer interpreted is Siri for us, it's a software that democratizes conversational Li allowing everyone to build their own Siri their own domain, we start to get a lot of phone calls a lot of attention a lot of downloads. And that's where actually Clinc begins in 2015 was started the company. I want to mention a little bit about the difference between Clinc and other companies when it comes to technology. So traditionally or actually state of the art a lot of voice assistant you're using right now use this bottom up approach on the on the left hand side. Basically when I say a sentence the AI will actually understand the sentence by building the grammar tree the tree understand the nouns and verbs and adjectives. So what was the last five adjectives I just said on the stage?
Right you probably don't actually can't really actually get it because human don't talk this way. And actually I teach my three year old to talk and by giving him tons of examples, right, that's a data driven way of learning how to talk and understand language. And that's exactly what Clinc does, which is using data driven build up deep learning model Kevin transfer example and you will eventually understand your language understand conversation in a very messy way they understand messy languages understands long just like you basically talking to a human the room like my three year old so we understand we now understand that people don't just want to talk to computers in the last four years we actually running the company, people want to talk to phone their phones, people want to talk to restaurants actually food ordering. Can I order burger with pickles and catch up on top? Right, the drive thru, they want to talk to the cars. Do I have enough gas to drive to Chicago they want to talk to their bank account. Does that make sense? I spend this $500 and dinner and so on so forth, right? We've been working with a lot of large institutions to bring conversational UI to their end users will live in multiple productions in multiple countries, countries and continents live for 35 million users. Typically when you launch a conversational AI, you will see the hype curve a user actually accounts. People get excited to use it. They didn't like it. So you basically user accounts actually dropped down. This is one of the launches we did English bank in in Turkey. That amount, 6 million of the mobile user in three months, we grew to 6.7 active users, not a drop because people are extremely happy of using actually voice just to transfer their money and asked the bank account. We actually want to sell the 19 ago Stevie Award for Best New Product service of the year. This is another launch we actually did in Britain, which is facing 25 million users, you could see the numbers of the containment rate, which is how often does the AI successfully handle user requests instead of going to a human agent, the typical industry standard 20%. We're launching different kinds This is a mention which is the biggest phone race of conversational AI in history, which is actually Wall for us. So the Sullivan award for 2019 technology. So think he'll be here and checking us out. Thank you.
All right. I'm sure the next startup will be ready for this pitch. Next on center stage is Kate Rosenbluth who co founded Cala Health to translate the latest neuroscience innovations into accessible therapies. Let's get Kate. Let's hopefully Kate is there to get on stage. Welcome to the stage.
Good afternoon Web Summit. I'm Kate Rosenbluth. I'm founder at Cala Health. I want you to think back The last time you received a prescription from your physician from your doctor. My guess is the prescription was for a medicine for a drug. So you might be surprised to learn that this wrist worn wearable sitting in its charger is also a therapy prescribed by physicians. It's an electrical medicine, and our team at Cala Health is building electrical medicines in the field of neurology, psychiatry and cardiology. This particular therapy Khalid trio is now on market in the United States, where it's cleared by the Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of essential tremor. For patients with essential tremor tasks that many of us take for granted can be incredibly challenging. Everything from drinking coffee, spreading cream cheese on toast, using a laptop, you holding a phone, and for these patients, there's really no available therapeutic options between drugs that are largely ineffective and brain surgery. A Keller, we realized that we could offer these patients relief from their tremor with a wrist worn wearable by tapping into two nerves at the wrist and sending a signal to the brain to the same location targeted by the drugs and by the brain surgeons. And importantly, we could do this without many of the systemic side effects of drugs. You see you when you take a drug, typically the drug gets into literally every cell in your body. It's to diffuse where you need it most and it causes side effects elsewhere. But when you tap into the nervous system, you have a beautifully targeted system. That's exactly why for example, our brain knows which toe we stopped, or which muscle to flex. The therapy is remarkably effective for many patients. We just ran a study of 200 63 patients completing over 22,000, just just under 22,000 sessions of therapy at home. And in that study, we saw that more than 90% of patients improve with more than half of them achieving at least a two fold improvement in their tremor. We've brought this to market with a model that is uniquely focused on patient centered care. We support patients through every step of their journey from receiving a prescription from an expert physician, right through dropping drop shipping product onto their doorstep. And as the patients use therapy, the therapy learns it becomes smarter, it becomes better able to help them address their tremor. We've been able to bring this forward remarkably quickly because we're building on the shoulders of two giant industries. The first is electrical medicines dating right back to the 1960s when scientists first understood how individual electrical pulses and interact with the heart, leading to the invention of pacemakers. Soon after scientists restored hearing for the Deaf with cochlear implants. And along the way with numerous other implants implanted deep brain stimulators in the brain. It was this therapy that we reverse engineered to take the sight of stimulation from the brain out onto the wrist. Of course, in parallel was the evolution in the computing industry going all the way from mainframes out onto the wrist. So in conclusion that Calla we are reimagining electricity as a medicine, reframing wearables as digital therapies as prescription therapies, and in that changing health care.
Next is Aba Schubert, who is the CEO of Dorae. Dorae will build useful solutions for the way we interact with each other and with the world, so please welcome Aba to the stage.
Hi, I'm Aba, co founder and CEO of Dorae, the physical commodities cloud. It's great to be here today. I love Lisbon. And I love talking about what has inspired Dorae. Dorae is a platform that serves the physical commodity sector and adjacent areas. Our users range from primary producers of raw materials to processors, traders, and logistics providers. Dorae gives automation, accountability and acceleration through Dorae. Users capture data sets tailored to their business and their needs. These can then be used for things like Process automation, business insight and compliance. We take our users with us into the next generation. This can be a big change. Much of our user base has complex logistics, far flung or limited global counter parties and commercial practices, some of which are straight out of the 70s. So changing this can be a challenge. But we all know the benefits the right tools can bring, so it's worth it. If you don't have the right tools, well, we can all do a lot with chewed gum and duct tape if we really have to, but it's not the same. We can see throughout history how far we can get with the right tools. For example, 500 years ago, the Portuguese explorer announced the McGill Ferdinand Magellan. He said sale with five ships One of them made it all the way around the world. That historic event is shown in the map we have here. Every step of the way. They were learning from their experience, and getting as far as they could go. The tools they had the knowledge and their wits, could get them around the globe, but couldn't get take them to the stars. That took another period of breathtaking innovation in technology, the 1950s and 60s to build the first good tools for space. This was driven to a large extent by the Cold War, much like the riches of the New World drove exploration some 400 years before. There's a pattern here. Every step of the way, they were learning from experience and improving their tools. Stories, customers are like this too. They're always learning. Always looking for an edge. That's why users love Dorae. quick wins from Dorae automation gets immediate results. And the systems flexibility means it fits into pre existing workflows and keeps up with ever changing commercial demands. At Dorae, we're always learning from our users and listening to our stakeholders. This gives us the raw material, we need to keep building more and more useful tools. We're now launching the pro version of the Dorae app. And we're super excited about this milestone. It has things like Ro permission, and increased automation functions. These are features we designed based on user feedback, so we know they'll have impact.
There's a context to this Dorae was inspired by what it takes to succeed down holes and in jungles. We're staying close to that. Well, pushing the boundaries of the possible we know that that the world is constantly changing. And good tools can help. So Dorae will keep building them. Thank you. I'm Aba from Dorae. And I hope to see you on the growth stage tomorrow.
Okay, our final speaker of the day is from a company called Red Points, which is a software company which helps fight piracy and counterfeit products online. So here to tell us all about the company is CEO, Laura Urquizu.
Good afternoon, everybody. So happy to be here. So let me explain to you what is Red Points. Red Points is a company that helps other companies and brands that has this terrible issue of piracy. fake products online. Here are some numbers. So they were why Britta ecommerce it is expected to reach $4.9 trillion by 2021. This is very good news for many of the ones that we are here. But the problem is that by 2022, there will be like $2.5 trillion of content failing goods, not only online but also offline, which is a terrible issue and what are the kind of problems that we address? So, our solution provides help to companies in different in different aspects. One of them the most important one is brand protection. So with our solution, we are able to detect and remove all kinds of listings containing products and we are also able to give a lot of information to our clients so they can really know what's going on with our products online. Our Brad intelligence platform also provides helps to companies to brands media companies that have faced this problem of piracy online the download of illegal content, we are partners with YouTube and with a Google and finally seller tracking that is Hired issue very similar to the fake products but helps we help companies to protect themselves their revenue against parallel Marcus or what we call gray market then these distributors that they are not being very honest. And with the with the Brad and with the revenues of the Brandt How do we do it? So as I said, we develop our own platform our own technology that goes From detection to removal, of course we use, we use machine learning, image recognition to provide to the system with all kinds of rules and keywords that helps to search online in any market places, the listings containing fake products. And after that we launch a series of developments to enforce on to remove the products. All of it in the cloud, of course. How do we do it? So when we started that we were a small company to address this problem, we had to build a bigger platform. This is why we started with SMEs with a small companies that didn't have protection, but they had a bigger problem too. And then we went up to the biggest companies when our platform was more saline because let me ask you a question. Very quickly. think all of you about one brother What's up Roden of fake products online? I'm sure you just thought about a huge, big brand of fashion. But this is a problem that affects all kinds of companies, all verticals, from very small to very big. This is why we have to say goodbye. And we have more than 600 clients