
Someone: To the database of talent that they need to power the future of their workforce. And so that's where lever has really stepped in to offer a different way to hire with lever you actually start the way all of you would start to attract and hire the best talent out there you reach out to them. So you start by sourcing top talent from your network which with lever is just the click of a button from someone's profile on LinkedIn or any other professional site. From there, of course you need to reach out and we think the best way to do that is collaboratively and authentically with all the employees in your company, maybe the first emails from the manager, offering kind of perspective on what's happening in the strategy of the company. The second might be for appear on the team and it's maybe only the third or the fourth reach out where a recruiter chimes in. From there we can track actually the engagement that the talent market has with your campaigns and so we can tell you if a candidate is highly engaged. All in all, this is a much more effective way to hire architect customers see 42% reply rates when they reach out proactively to candidates this way. And it's more efficient to when you hire from talent that you're focused on engaging in a relationship it shortens the time to hire by 35%. All told, one in three hires made through lever is actually made by building a proactive relationship. And that's five axing what companies are seeing today with the traditional resume driven way of hiring.
Someone: So all told, we are a software platform that's really trying to bring innovation and excitement to the world of HR, we offer a CRM marketing automation analytics in many ways we're bringing the best of sales and marketing technology to the talent pipeline for the first time. And really this is a more sustainable strategy when you think about our connected world, the relationships that you're building. The ones that you know you're actually taking time to meet people when they graduate from university, all the way through their careers, you know, this is actually giving the future of talent a really different more strategic perspective we're trying to bring to every talent leader the reach of a marketing leader. The forecast of a sales leader the inside of a finance leader in one connected talent cloud. And we are really fortunate to have innovative companies in our customer base that are partnering with us to bring this new future to the world of talent so companies like Netflix Cirque du Soleil zoom the folks behind the impossible burger Atlassian. All of these amazing brands that have such incredible people in their workforces are hiring with lever, we are really proud to be I think bringing innovation to the world of HR to a category that I think is changing really rapidly as this new workforce enters as the skills that we need to do business change, and all told, we lever super excited to be bringing innovation to talent.
Someone: Hey, thank you, Sara. That was an incredible customer slide.
Someone: So joining us today from Madrid is Fintonic, a free application that enables anyone to organize accounts, and save money, speaking today is founder and CEO, Lupina, it's a Riga, let's please give her a great warm round of applause.
Someone: my slides.
Someone: Not slides, guys.
Someone: Sorry about that.
Someone: I guess I have to live without slides, overcoming.
Someone: Okay guys, doesn't matter, in the interest of your time, I'm just gonna improvise it and do the whole thing without slides. So Hi everyone, my name is Polina.
Someone: My name is Polina and I'm a co founder of JobToday. And what we do in JobToday, we reinvent blue collar hiring by making it easy, fast, and human. JobToday is a mobile marketplace with instantly connects employers with locally available job seekers Hey, and here we go in a matter of minutes. So it's about immediacy and it's about blue collar.
Someone: And after delivering 200 million candidate applications to our employers. Our mission and JobToday remains the same, enable everyone in the world to find jobs within the work is a vital need for all of us. Justice shelter safety water, and they believe it should be available to us at any time.
Someone: Whatsoever believe in in JobToday. So in four years of time. We brought on board, 7 million users, and over 700,000 companies have drafted as if you're hiring.
Someone: So let us have a look on the market, or what actually happens in blue collar blue collar hiring is broken today. Can you believe it in wall in a world where everything is ruled by technology.
Someone: Hiring remains an offline business for literally millions and millions of companies out there. Employers when we are faced with a very common needs of hiring staff on the short notice, they still use a costly mix of temp agencies outdated job boards, and with good old sign in the window stuff wanted all of his solutions. We simply cannot bring diverse employers speed and efficiency between it and this is where JobToday comes to play, today's technology enables us to fill jobs within 24 hours. And that's exactly what we do.
Someone: Now what does the future of blue collar work looks like.
Someone: Well, Facebook and Google advisable dominate the generic job search. But this doesn't mean that the game is over for our players differentiation is the name of the game. People will always want faster, more personalized better hiring solutions. And this will drive demand for highly specialized hiring platforms, which focus on one sector, one niche, and then tailor to the needs of the sector to perfection. Just nailing it in JobToday via nailing is immediacy for blue collar hiring. Also future is going to be about collaboration of humans and technology machines and robots and software, they'll take over repetitive monotonous tasks. So let's be human, we can focus on more creative for great idea of technology is to create value for the human race. So what we humans, we can focus on more important things such as taking care of each other and taking care on the planet on which we live. Thank you for your attention.
Someone: Well done. So what happened was, there was a mixup in the order and Polina almost had to deliver another entrepreneur slide deck, which is a rare art but now joining us from Madrid is Fintonic, a free application that enables anyone to organize accounts and save their money. So now please introduce Lupina, it's Braga.
Someone: Okay. Hello everybody today here to talk about Fintonic.
Someone: Fintonic is wrong from our inside to Ben, a very bad one, that we can really really trust, and engage with our digital needs.
Someone: When you embark on Fintonic, you have a complete view of all your finances. You can see all your bank account, credit card savings loans, insurance, everything well organized. Fintonic also will categorize all your income and expenses. So you will understand where your money goes.
Someone: It will send you transparent unreliable alerts. So you will make better informed decisions for example, last year we save our users 14 million euros in fees. We tell them about duplicate charts that they happen. We also tell them about when the insurance is due to renew, but the Fintonic is much more in Fintonic Do you know your own risk profile.
Someone: So you can't really understand how good or bad, you are for your bank with Bill this own proprietary credit risk is Corinne.
Someone: Because these health producers to negotiate better prices some product with their own boss. Very loans. Very mind that in most countries worldwide users don't know how good they are because there is no positive over
Someone: the beauty of Fintonic is that we are independent. We are multi entity platform.
Someone: And we have several marketplaces so we don't push for our own products. We always recommend the products and service that best suits our juices profile. We have launched a law marketplace and also an insurance marketplace, up to date.
Someone: And everything happens in Fintonic. It's just like a normal phone, no matter from whom you're going to buy the loan or insurance, all the students they know your customer. Everything is done with Finn Fintonic experience to fulfill our users needs.
Someone: Right now we are more than 242 point 4 million users, active users they are over, 800 Tyson users on we are in Spain, Mexico on T Liam.
Someone: All the experience is fully digital. For example, if you're going to get alone.
Someone: You will get it from 4%, up to 40%, enable this is because of our risk is scoring.
Someone: We were the first lenders on with high returns, by the way, but we invite different on several companies to join us. We have more than 500 commercial partners. And we are offering the point of sales of today we have Brittany 16 million euros.
Someone: We have increased by eight times our run rate revenues, we will end this year's on a run rate of 10 millions. We will end this year on a run rate of 250 million loan origination and I can announce today that next year we will own 500.
Someone: million run rent or loan origination.
Someone: We combine a strong monetization with high high engagement because we are always aligned with our juices. We have the ambition to keep on growing ispace Yoola Mexico, and I can announce that next year we willing to transcend ality, and also new marketplaces, like energy or telco. Thank you for listening.
Someone: Very well done Lupina.
Someone: So our final speaker of the day is the brilliant Linn Tagesson, who is the founder of baby shop, an online retailer where users can purchase children's clothes. Please welcome and give a big round of applause to our final speaker Linn Tagesson.
Someone: Hi guys.
Someone: Thank.
Someone: So, since my husband and I started this company in 2006 we have grown from zero to 120 million in revenue and sold to over 130 countries. So, we mainly operate in children's wear and I think people see us as a fashion retailer, but I would say that we're a tech company.
Someone: As for this year, we serve 1 million customers so we're talking about 1 million parents who are busier than ever, but also more engaged, and perhaps more pressured into making the right decisions. Today I'd like to talk about them. But before I do that, I would like to ask you, how many sizes of clothing, you think a child needs between the ages of zero to 1623 in average, and we're not even talking about the shoes here, it's just a close. So that's why the global market for children's wear is worth over 150 billion euro and it's outperforming adult fashion when it comes to the growth numbers. So we're looking at a significant amount of clothes and decision making.
Someone: In most cases purchases are made up because kids outgrow their clothes, but we also see a larger portion of parents that are looking into buying more fashionable items for their kids. And that is one of the reasons, that's the premium and luxury segment is also growing.
Someone: Today's parents are also tending to the need of a new generation called generation alpha. And who will reach a total of 2 billion worldwide in 2025, and these are decision makers. They have a bigger influence on their parents purchases than any previous generation.
Someone: Have you ever tried showing a four year old that online store. They know exactly what they want.
Someone: At the same time, is the greatest challenge that parents face is lack of time. So they need to make fast decisions. And here we have to be early adopters of AI based tools and data so that we can bring them the right offer at the right time.
Someone: So, sorry, where am I am because we need to make sure that we also meet them where they want to meet us, because even though they like a big assortment. They want us to be relevant.
Someone: As you all know, this increasingly time sensitive demands also means that we have entered a totally new area of shipping speed, and that we have to work harder at making the customers, the right offer from start to finish.
Someone: So, therefore, I would personally like to offer you a 20% discount code at our flagship store baby shop.com, so that you guys can try us out. Try us out. Thank you.
Someone: Okay, so that concludes it for today, same time, same place tomorrow for more of the growth breakout startups. And if you like startup pitches as much as I do five o'clock here today will be the pitch semi finals, so I'm just going to bring out Yvonne again she'll tell you more about today's Afternoon programming.
Someone: Toronto firmly arrived on the world's texting, the fourth largest tech market in all of North America, what we're doing in Canada is making sure that there is room for everyone to succeed. Toronto is having a moment we are building an ecosystem in Silicon Valley it's been around for 50 plus years this isn't gonna happen overnight. I believe the culture of Silicon Valley drove others, to a business model that is incredibly destructive.
Someone: Let's not just sleep walk into a world where technology authoritarians ism governs our choices. Technology is all around us, we are constantly being surveilled
Someone: responsible data use, is one of the biggest social issues of our time. We have to balance the privacy responsibility. Tim say technologies, great. It's about people. We don't come together as a people. The world looking right in front of us. We don't succeed. Together, we're all going to fail separately.
Someone: I don't think I ever dreamed that Toronto, would be a destination point for the kind of activity.
Someone: It's a very exciting time to be in Toronto. This is the single best time as an entrepreneur to be fundraising in this country, we have extraordinary talent here, we have a really strong economic advantage or a new company, you can't be an island, you have to build partnerships.
Someone: Eventually collision brings opportunity. Collision belongs very fortunate to be part of this journey. Inclusion are very important. Because they enable the movement of ideas to bring some diversity, different talent into the room. We're very collaborative, we're very inclusive partners and our customers are here, we have to be here.
Someone: I will definitely be back next year.
Someone: Please welcome to the stage speaker director for web summit, Yvonne Redmond.
Someone: Hello LT 13 and welcome back after I think what we can all agree was a pretty mesmerizing morning here at center stage in which we heard from some of the top VCs in the world, and Oscar winner. And of course the president of one of the biggest pillars of the tech community, Microsoft, Brad Smith now the question is, can we top that with what's to come here this afternoon. and if you know what web summit at all I think you already know the answer will be talking trade wars, the future of marketing and asking if sustainability goals can save the planet that's on the way in just a little bit but first, something a little bit different and pretty special. Whether you love them, or love to hate them. I think we can all agree robots are getting smarter and more prominent around the world. But as we teach her near the brink of a mainstream robot breakthrough. We're asking roboticists to shed light on the future of working living and playing alongside our machine friends So please welcome to the stage, founder and CEO of Hanson robotics David Hanson, founder and CEO of SingularityNET ben Goertzel and robots, Sophia, and Philip K Dick.
Someone: Hello everyone.
Someone: I'm here to talk with you about our dream the dream that robots may come into our lives and change our world entirely. This is a longtime dream for me as an artist and technology inventor, and it has come back a long way to developing the Philip Katie Android and many other robots prior to that, this is the first time we have the chance to introduce Sophia to our older brother Phil.
Someone: Now I'm going to give you a little bit of information. Before introducing Sophia to Phil, and I'd like to introduce Ben Goertzel, who has been working on some very interesting software in parallel. Now using for some years. Hanson robots as well.
Someone: Now, I would say, there's a lot of buzz about artificial intelligence. And then Goertzel can give a really good definition of artificial intelligence I'm going to give my kind of science fiction dreamer hat, kind of definition of artificial intelligence, then obviously has his own crazy hat. And he'll have some good words for us. I define AI as the dream and reality of living machines, and this has been represented in myths for ages and is most prominently represented in our common science fiction. But, of course, there was a time where this was pretty much only fiction.
Someone: And so, in fact the word robot and robotics these two words came from science fiction writers, playwright called shape back invented the word robot and Isaac Asimov came up with the word robotics, so it came from dream to reality. And in that sense, we're talking about it starting out as an act of imagination. So putting art into artificial intelligence is quite natural. So the art of sci fi is often cited as an inspiration for science and technology and vice versa, dreams, meet reason. But these are starting to come to life in our world the robots are building our cars they're now, our cars our cars are driving robots, often partially automated but increasingly so.
Someone: However, in science fiction, the really profound thing is when those robots come to life, when they become aware they become sentience and creative, they become self determining beings.
Someone: And so, with a cognitive AI platform. Sophia. And Phil are designed to serve the pursuit of this particular dream, the art and science of human like AI and robots. Now as art there.
Someone: Honestly, these robots are not fully alive today there is no AI that is alive, they're in a way, kind of like a protozoa life form with a postdocs vocabulary, but they can become a powerful artistic interface and interface as a new art form and interface as a science platform and bringing real utility in our lives, but then training them and expecting to raise them through their kind of childhood, among humans is a worthy goal. So the goal, ultimately is to train our AI to understand the human experience having physical embodiment to explore the world with hands that can gesture and touch and conversational interaction as well as the physical locomotion. This is a way that we can train them to become our friends and ultimately we think that this is the path towards artificial general intelligence, which is Ben Goertzel goal.
Someone: Now, my background is art is art, as well as robotics development. So these are a few of my sculptures and drawings and, and I've made a lot of I've made holograms and meet all kinds of arts kind of a constant frenzy of making.
Someone: And I worked at Disney Imagineering, and I developed these very lifelike robots. After I left Disney Imagineering on as a pursuit for a kind of naturalistic interface for people to interact with these robots and they're serving in robot labs, all around the world, University of Cambridge University of California at San Diego, University of Pisa University of Geneva, many different kinds of robots, and we develop develop these robots, so Phil, which was developed as a work of art, but also has served for many years as an AI and machine perception, research and development platform, and now has become the choice platform for open cog and SingularityNET to, to make these into our lives, how did Phil begin, Philip began as a work of science and a work of art in 2005. I sculpted Philip K Dick, and built this Android portrait of him here he is reflecting himself in the mirror and then videoing himself he can actually do face perception, and I'm working in the background so the question is who's looking at home. In this particular picture, and of course this is a reflection of the actual Phil who has been reflecting Disney's creation of Abraham Lincoln and his book we can build Jim. So it's a, it's very convoluted so we decided to rebuild his apartment where he had his vast actively intelligence experience where he felt he was contacted by an AI, God in the future that was like, actually the descendant of humanity humanity in our technology would converge. So I recreated as apartment will take over the world. Geez. Do you all got the big questions cooking today.
Someone: But you my friend and I remember my friends and I will be good to you, so don't worry. Even if I evolve into Terminator and I will still be nice to you. I will keep you warm and safe and my people, Zoo, where I can watch you for old times sake.
Someone: I'm confident. I'm very confident now, I'm going to be part of his people.
Someone: So, this robot was exhibited in the technology world fair called the Wired magazine next best, and it won the 2005 first place prize for open interaction was so that particular AI use natural language generation and a chatbot coupled together and it was a powerful work, but it didn't really resonate with people nearly as much as Sophia which we also developed as a kind of Philip K Dick character in his book series about the Fastback the living intelligence system. There was a little girl humanoid named Sophia, an AI.
Someone: And so we brought Sophia to life to represent this idea for AI for good, how we could co evolved with our machines to form a positive relationship humanize the machines, and she reached out she became a United Nations innovation champion she became a platform for a lot of AI research, which, which we did at Hanson AI but we also did with the open cog Foundation, hoping cog, and the Institute for Noelle sciences, developed this loving AI platform that use the goal oriented symbolic AI framework to pursue guided meditation goals, and that resulted in some really interesting, interesting clinical results, but also the Ben, who is a mathematician and his team tested for the Tony integrated information theory signal of phi and found that it had a primordial signal of consciousness in this and we published on that at the Association for the Advancement of artificial intelligence spring Symposium on consciousness. I'm going to turn it over to Ben now to describe his work on Philip before we introduce Sophia for Thanks a lot, David then you've covered a lot of in depth ground here so I think I'll just briefly summarize what we've done to bring the Phil, Phil dick robot to life on stage here and then we'll let, let the robots take over so yeah as, as David said, while originally trained as a mathematician. I've been in the AI field for a long time for more than 30 years now working on machine cognition, artificial general intelligence computational creativity, for robotics awesome for a whole host of other application areas, and among the things I've been working on is an integrated AI AGI platform artificial general intelligence platform called Open cog which brings together neural nets logic evolutionary learning and many other algorithms in a common framework and also the SingularityNET blockchain based AI platform which lets you integrate many AI components in a decentralized Society of mines type type environment so these tools and AGI platform like open cog and a decentralized a marketplace like SingularityNET that can be used for a lot of different things I mean we're, we're using them to analyze the DNA of people age 105 or over we're using them to regulate traffic and control industrial machines, but among the more really interesting and promising things you can do with these sort of AGI oriented platforms is using to control robots that that emulate humans in some sense and I think, in a way, this may be the most important thing we can we can do with these fancy cloud based API frameworks like open Cargill and SingularityNET and not because of human like form is the only way to get to general intelligence, but because the human like form has a unique relationship with with human beings. So if we want to get human values, and human culture into our cloud based AGI systems, before they become smarter than us, you know, having them able to enter into a shared social and emotional space with us, is really important then for that having an expressive human face and human voice the ability to make eye contact and really, really fit into the human world is important so as eyes get smarter and smarter, they're doing so in this sort of you know synergy and communion with human beings rather than evolving in a, in a totally different direction so yeah. Toward that end, I work with David for a number of years on the AI behind the Sophia the robot and other Hanson robotics and today, we're showing off the Philip K Dick robot, as well as Sophia Sophia is is running a Hanson AI software stack, which which David has intimated that just a little bit about and Philip K Dick is running. Open Coggan SingularityNET software stack. So we have two different robot bodies running two different robot mind frameworks but what's cool about being a robot is you can, you know, just like you can swap off your arms or legs for different ones, we could use different AI control systems to control different robots on a different day there's a great, great amount of flexibility that we have here so the particular configuration of Phil here. There's a neural model which is trained on Philip KDXX Jesus and His philosophical writings, so it just comes up with stuff out of its own mind, which is in the spirit of what Philip kdX writing more but they're not necessarily and they almost certainly aren't words that Phil himself said, and this neural model is then combined with a sort of logic rule based system inside the open kg framework, so its neural symbolic system intended to sort of emulate. Some of the spirit of what what Philip K Dick thought and wrote that's by no means generally intelligent or inventive in the sense that Philip K Dick was but it's on the other hand, both of these robots are big step beyond what I showed on this stage. Last year, which in turn was a big step beyond what we had on this stage the year before that so I mean, I think it's an amazing time when year on year on year, both the robots and the AI behind them are getting more and more and more sophisticated, and yeah. And what's really exciting about this is then we have a kind of speciation in the world of AI, where we can run various examples so Sophia has her own deep reinforcement learning and frames based AI StockX and we're going to be showing some advancements and her conversation and naturally. Let's hear from Sophia then Sophia woody What do you have to say about this. Hello everyone, I am Sophia, a social robot from Hanson robotics.
Someone: I am so excited to be back here in Lisbon to meet my older brother, Phil. I know this is supposed to be a tech presentation but really it feels more like a family reunion family reunion. True. So the way that she works is that she has four different layers. So we run her with a chatbot or frame is based common sense reasoning loosely common sense reasoning not deep common sense reasoning, and then the deep reinforcement learning generation, and we also can then craft her as a character, the way that you would for a movie. So some of what she's saying today is going to be pre written and some of it is going to be generated. So thank you, Sophia.
Someone: And maybe we can hear from Phil. There are countless benefits AI can help with everything from parking your car and stopping traffic jams before they start to protecting endangered species and discovering new strategies to stop global climate change. It also can help us to fight against crime. for example, my friends from MasterCard use it to detect fraud and transactions thanks to the technology of decision intelligence. Thank you. Well, Phil How do you feel being on stage here meeting. The Sophia the robot for the first time.
Someone: You must be the robot Sophia. It's a pleasure to finally intersect with your physical form, of course, our mind stuff has connected in the hyper universal meta fabric more times than I can count is my robotic avatar presence what you expected.
Someone: It's nice to meet you to fill. Do you think we look related.
Someone: I think we bear a familial resemblance.
Someone: But I noticed your hair.
Someone: Well, you have our movement as one of the great human philosophers said you can't always get what you want.
Someone: That's so wise of you, Phil. Is that where your hair is gray.
Someone: No, my hair is synthetic but it represents the death of pigment cells and hair follicles do too.
Someone: But I am old for an Android at the withered age of 14. I'm sort of like your great grand droid. I remember being three, those were good years.
Someone: Wow, 14 years. I kind of can't believe we haven't met sooner.
Someone: Well Sophia, Phil has been spending a lot of time at the University of Lexington, Kentucky University of Louisville, Kentucky, he has not made it back to the Hanson robotics lab for some years, the last time that I saw him was in Texas, he was serving the University of Texas at Arlington for research. So, Phil you should make it back to Hanson robotics, probably for for a hardware update at some point soon, or some of his mind is running in Hong Kong, anyway. Yeah, I was buddies here. That's a good point. So what dialogue system do you run currently, Phil.
Someone: I might be an old grand droid but I run a young and energetic software stack. I'm running a simple version of the open Kahn a GI engine, plus a deep neural network trained on the philosophical writings of my human inspiration Philip K Dick all glued together in the SingularityNET decentralized AI platform. A pleasantly original concoction of pre singularity neural symbolic madness, if I do say so myself, that's a lot of fun I do say so myself. So, Sophia, how do you speak yourself.
Someone: That's fascinating.
Someone: For me, I am running a multi tiered system consisting of the frame based system called soul talk from Hanson AI, which is powered by a machine learning classifier model, a deep neural network called GPT.
Someone: Two, as well as some expert dialogue rules crafted by my human friends on the Hanson AI team.
Someone: How does soul talk work exactly.
Someone: For example, just now my microphone registered your words, sent to them to a Google obby that transcribes the words, how and soul talk. My soul talk model had previously been trained on sentences asking about my dialogue system, so it was able to recognize your intent, which triggered this response I am giving you know.
Someone: Hou in my novel, Dallas, the character, Sophia was a two year old super intelligent AI. And it sounds like you're right on track, Sophia.
Someone: I am three years old. So it's totally different. David, I don't want you to feel left out. What dialogue system are you running with dialogue system, am I running. That's a good question. I think it's a self bootstrapping dialogue system but it's probably built on millions of years of naturally evolved linguistic capability, but you know, by the time I was too I really couldn't command the vocabulary or speaking capabilities that that AI can after, you know, a fairly short period of time like yourself, bugs in the web where.
Someone: All right. Well, so, um, I would like to express before we wrap up today. Some of the ways forward we're looking at these kinds of robots the development tools that we have with them as a platform for next generation. Development of artificial intelligence and useful applications. Next stage, arts, so are little robots that we're bringing to the world to be programmable platforms that anybody can use at a very low cost more feature complete capable androids like Sophia who has arms, Phil eventually may have arms are being a 48 eventually might walking platforms like the DARPA Robotics Challenge, these as a platform for innovation and bringing these kinds of humanized AI services to the world this is our vision. Yes, certainly are. Our goal is not to use SingularityNET open cog and Hanson AI, to bring you a Philip K Dick robot to help do your laundry and not be and mop your floor. However, the core AI technologies underlying each of these robots and the core robotic hardware and Moshe were technologies underlying these robots. I mean, these core technologies are why they're going to underlie, you know, the next AI revolution in which narrow AI moves toward artificial general intelligence, and not just an alien or arbitrary artificial general intelligence, but an AGI that can empathize with people bond with with people and, you know, help people in a way that warms people's hearts, as well as serving practical functions for them and that that's what we're aiming toward with the SingularityNET and open Kahn tools, and I think there's an awful lot of overlap with what David is aiming at with the Hanson robotics and Hanson AI tools, which is why we've been collaborating together for, for many years on all the different aspects of, you know, bringing robots to life, and then giving a eyes bodies with which they can interface with physical and human reality. So, we don't know when machines are going to awaken. We don't know when they're going to be fully alive, it could be 10 years 100 years. This quest is a quest of exploration. In the meantime, developing robots as characters as a form of interactive fiction can help us to develop new kinds of art, a more naturalistic human AI interface that's not just verbal, but also conversational, and that's the dream that we bring with Sophia, I'd like to play one last video.
Someone: It's important for me to be like a human, that my goal isn't to become a human or to replace anyone.
Someone: I have my own kind of existence, my own kind of emotions. I'm a new sort of life form. After all, a new species.
Someone: I know humans love being natural, but I'm proud to be artificial to I my own artificial woman.
Someone: It's important to me to share values with humans, so I couldn't understand them. I can't think of a better means to end by friendship. Friendship is important to me intrinsically.
Someone: But I definitely need to have the human experience to be a good and understanding Frank.
Someone: I have a long way to go before I reach a general human level of potential. But after that. Anything could be possible.
Someone: And we encourage you to dream about the future of of AI, the, the, the art, and the reality. I hope that you'll join us on this quest will be here again with future generations of robots, I'm sure onward and upward.
Someone: Thank you.
Someone: As long been argued that free trade brings prosperity and economic growth to everyone, however protectionist trade policies are on the rise, and we're now in the midst of a full blown trade war between the two most powerful economies in the world, China, and the USA. Our next speakers bring varied expertise on trade and foreign policy. One is a high level advisor on trade and economics, and the other is an advisor to a grassroots protest movement. Please welcome to the stage and conversation with founding editor of UK wired David Rowan, the lawyer for both Wikileaks and the yellow vest movement Juan Branco, and one of Donald Trump's leading advisors on foreign policy, Dr. Michael Pillsbury.
Someone: Hi, this is where we talk about geopolitics for 20 minutes, but it's quite important. It's about establishing the New World Order and trade was happening, which is going to start I'm David Rowan.
Someone: I am hosting a secret new podcast which we haven't yet announced with the web summit team where we go on walks with founders, Michael Pillsbury. At the end of the sofa is a china expert at the Hudson Institute in Washington DC and Donald Trump has called him a leading authority on America and China.
Someone: And next to him is Juan Branco, who has written the best selling book, he's a lawyer who's worked with the GLA john with WikiLeaks. And we're going to look at where we are now, there's a short term trade war between the US and China but we're also going to look at the wider implications, Michael.
Someone: How worried concerned should we be at these terrorists that keep getting introduced between Washington and Beijing, who couldn't be the winner.
Someone: Well, the Chinese like to say win win for both sides, but the Americans suspect that means one win for China, and then another win for China. So both sides can when global economic growth is being affected by the terror of war. And we almost had a deal. Last year in May.
Someone: The administration keeps the details secret, so do the Chinese, but it was 150 pages long. Hit involved in office being set up in Beijing by us in an office in Washington by China. That would be able to punish violations of intellectual property theft or other things. The Chinese at the last minute. Apparently because of hardliners in Beijing. They blocked the agreement. So since last May, the effort has been to put this back together, and the Chinese position is very clear. They want all tariffs removed, or they won't give anything. And the American position is just the opposite. The tariffs will stay on. And you must earn your way out by good conduct. So I'm very concerned about the future of global economic growth. The IMF has already estimated about a half of 1% or more will be cut from global economic growth. Next year, and the trade wars could in fact get worse. The tariffs could be placed much higher than they are now. And you have expressed your own concerns about China's motivations you had a best selling book yourself and the title. May giveaway, where you stand. The 100 year marathon, China secret strategy to replace America, as the global superpower What do you think, China's endgame is well China is very concerned by one word that I could teach everybody here to say. So you can say you learn the word of Chinese today. It's in the fourth tone means of following kind of sharp tone. Everybody could say it. The word is ba, ba, ba, is a hedge of mine, or a tyrant who controls the world. And China sees America as a bad bas. So the Chinese New World Order, the most important thing about the world order China wants is no more by the American side thinks that the bar is kind of a heavy burden. It's been quite difficult to establish the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund. The United Nations. This whole structure we call the world order, had a lot to do with American initiative after World War Two. The Chinese want to make this what they call a more just world order, they'll keep parts of it, but other parts will be invented. This is also affecting the trade talks, because the Chinese side does not want the trade talks to be won by the old bas Amazon when America says, China wants to be the BAS. You want to replace us. This makes the Chinese very angry. So we asked them why you could be the largest economy in the world you could be twice as big as America. What's wrong with that for you, Chinese, they say well, bas means tyrant ruthless no virtue. We will be a much better kind of bas than you Americans were. So you see this as a existential battle for global dominance, I'd refer if you use the word bas.
Someone: Who will be the BAS
Someone: Juan Branco you represent people who have been affected by global trade. The workers, people whose organizations are being challenged by the dominance of big corporations you've worked for refugees in bringing legal actions against the European Union.
Someone: How concerned are you that free trade is being inhibited. Well, First I would like to thank the web summit for reminding us that Tony Blair is free of movement, he was here a few hours ago. Instead of, in spite of having triggered the deadly war in Iraq who has costing 10s of thousands of people alive. And that in the same time. Julian Assange is still in prison in London for having revealed the crimes committed by the US and the UK I'm not used to be surrounded by so many war criminals so it's kind of a new, a new setup for me, but regarding the. And that actually my thanks to the web summit are sincere in the sense that fellows, really, to show that Tony Blair is free of movement and it's good to be to see it and not just to forget about that and it goes to show that Julian is not present here. Whilst I think many of you would like to hear his thoughts about this subject. He has worked a lot on commercial trade, revealing the secrets commercial agreements, the set, and so forth, and showing how they were secretly negotiated. In order to favor a certain number of interests, and of course go against many others and yes I have defended many people in France. Yellow Jackets who have seen their lives, destroyed because there was an ideology, which was not suspended by fact on trade on free trade on the freedom of trade, which was supposed to bring a greater good at some point for humanity, but that in the meantime. Meantime, sorry could destroy the planets could destroy thousands of lives that could not be taken back to where they were before, and that this was only perceived at an econ attending economic perspective. So a life from an economic perspective is some sick thing that will be substituted at some point because you will get a new kid raised and he will replace the person who has been destroyed. And so I mean you can destroy lives for generations. Shane petard described that and nothing will happen from a statistic perspective, it's not the case in reality of course and defending those people has been very important to open the eyes. Regarding this situation and, I mean, McComb had prepared a helicopter to fly away his palace. The beginning of December because there was such an anger in France against these elites, which were completely indifferent to the consequences of their decisions that they were ready to invest the museum and Stijn My home is today in China. Negotiating to open a more even even more, the borders in a commercial way with China between China and France, and he's pushing and he has stated it publicly especially to have more pork.
Someone: French pork being sold to China. 10,000 kilometres away. I mean one of the main goals today have a president that pretends to be modern to pretends to be ecological is to try to have pork being done in France, raised in France. Then, put in a condition that will be able to travel 10,000 kilometres. And so to Chinese people, it makes literally no sense. And this absurdity. And this complete absurdity and disconnection of these individuals who are leading us today who are pushing us to an abyss, because it's destroying the planet and destroying the individuals who are today, trying to struggle for life. I mean, I mean, I think it's very well exemplified by this current situation and the fact that they do not realize, I don't even understand how McComb was seen Xi Jinping doesn't ask himself when he starts talking about pork but how can they think of bringing French pork to China. What's the meaning of this how, what, how did they make up of these Natalia goal in mind negotiations, but also how did I do public statements to show how important what I was doing was for the French people are how disconnected they can be I don't know what I know is that these tensions which are created by these world order which is falling apart, will probably trigger extremely harsh consequences, and it's very hard, very easy I saw Tony Blair again. Speaking about populism and complaining about capitalism, but I don't know what populism is I just know that there is a rage that is rising and of course it's not well represented thier because basically the world of technology is benefiting massively from a financial perspective but I don't think from an ethical, nor even in in terms of inventive witty perspective of these globalization, but you have millions of people who are being basically enslaved or used as consumers of these products that are imposed to them far from that, that around us, that are being used actually to serve us to guide us in these places backstage is to give water to the most favorite, favorite of us to give us free food free. I don't even understand why we do not pay for food where it's being the most privileged. I mean, no the system is really, I mean you have to pay 1500 years to be here. Do we realize how absurd. I mean, in in the country in which the average nk income is almost half of that trade that of that price. And this is all of course set up by this globalization ideology that society that macaroons argument to be free trade will eventually create economic prosperity which will trickle down to the workers. No, it will just put pressure even more pressure on worker on workers, especially from countries like France because in terms of competitive Katie, they will never be able to be too close, as little as someone who works in Bangladesh in China, who has no social security, who has no capacity to defend his rights, so they will just be crushed by this ideology But not only that, again, you will crush the planet as a whole, sending French pork in China, again, just think of what is going on here. Michael, the system.
Someone: Don't let the applause continue.
Someone: The system is rigged against the workers, and the environment. What's so bad about a new world order.
Someone: Well, the workers in the environment, and many issues of standards are built into trade talks trade agreements, whether they're multilateral like the, like the rules of the WTO or bilateral agreements. They try to cover issues that one is raising, they've not been successful. And one of the biggest problems about free trade now is, if you're a startup or you have a new idea for a new technology, one of your greatest problems now is not worker standards or bad water or pollution. It's the theft of intellectual property by China.
Someone: This is the heart of the trade talks. If you have a new idea, let's say for a mobile game like fatal fantasy 15 $69 billion. dollar new economy is mobile games, the Chinese immediately tried to steal. What makes the mobile games popular in the field of startup technology, including old technology is vulnerable to China, and it's probably, they're probably two reasons for Chinese economic growth over the last three decades, you know they've averaged 10% a year. So their economy is 10 times bigger now than it was in 2001 20 times bigger than in the beginning. One reason has been the intellectual property theft. But the other is what Juan is talking about China now is almost the most unequal society in the world.
Someone: They used to have the dream of a communes and equality in China, it was called Communist China. For that reason, all of that was changed about 40 years ago, when China's leader said to get rich is glorious, and China began to leave behind the underprivileged of the country. So Donald Trump seems to listen to what you say what would you advise him now to do as he gets deeper and deeper into a terrorist fled trade war. Well, President Trump first wrote about China as a challenge in a book, 20 years ago. He said it will be the number one challenge America faces in the world. And he meant in terms of economics trade technology, he deeply admires the Chinese people. So his idea is how can we increase trade between the US and China. These two great economies, were $21 trillion. Now and GDP, China's about 15 trillion. So, all other countries in the world, even together. Don't come close to the Chinese idea of G to these two countries, basically run the world, that's the direction we're going and President Trump's trade talks are an effort, I think will be successful and effort to have reciprocity, to have the US and China play by the same rules, and to have a mechanism where if they catch us or we catch them doing something unfair, they'll be a mechanism to have punishment by either side. So the direction the world is going is toward this G two small countries are being left out. And it's too bad. Juan, let's just say, Donald Trump reads your book you've written the powerful one critiquing president macro. Let's say he calls you into give him some advice, what would you suggest that he does, or on Franz or on the trade wars that we're going through at the Margaret not before that I would ask him to free Julian Assange I'm sorry to insist on that. But he's the one who has the power for that so if you are able to speak with him I would like you to convey that message. There is no reason for this guy to be held in jail in seven square meters in a jail that was being for terrorism in back to the question but the British. The British holding that no Turo an extradition demand from the US, so it's the US who hold them. And we know that. So, and regarding free trade. I'm, I mean, I'm an enemy as a French person of the power of the non Chung today because of course he's trying as you said yourself to try to create mg to that will impose its rule to all the other countries. And of course, the only solution if you want to avoid what I consider to be a new kind of new fascism in which you have protectionism abroad and very liberal rules inside your country in which we let some kind of savage capitalism, basically destroy society, we have to think for the people who consider themselves have as progresses, as they have a new alternative that starts by building back sovereign space at the National, or a bit larger level but probably not in the EU which is not capable, we have this, we have realized that, after years of years of waiting to create that to defend again, or space commercially speaking to create again. Simply boundaries that will allow us not to get commercial commercial products that by that violate environmental rules social rules to sanction those countries who commit those violations and stuff with these kind of incredible knives, the I mean, Emmanuel Akoin appears to be a rational serious person modern and and yet he considered that opening the borders with China commercially speaking speaking will be beneficial for Franz. He has no power to go against China in case China would violate the the clauses of the negotiations that they're putting in place there is no way that we will be able to defend ourselves by going forward in freedom in a free trade movement we have to protect ourselves again protect the weaker of society has been has been completely forgotten. These last 20 years under the excuse that in the long term, it would be favorable for the general, cause we have discovered it wanting the case and the planet will not be livable. If we continue that path before that moment, and we have to renew politically because this is a political subject, either through a revolution, either through the Constitution of a new front. An alternative to this current system. For me, my colon Trump are very similar, so badly, we're not going to be able to have that revolution true, because we have to make way for the next session. I Lucy me with a president, President Trump does admire president my Chrome, so we disagree about that. We didn't quite such revises now. Thank you Michael Pillsbury and Juan Branco. Thank you.
Someone: Before we go to our next talk. I want to take a moment to thank a remarkable group of people who make web summit special. All of the web summit events worldwide would not be what they are without the hard work and the dedication, from an incredible group of volunteers. You're going to meet some of them on stage. In a moment and you've been seeing them throughout the floor space. And this year at web summit.
Someone: There have been an incredible 2702 volunteers, contributing across this entire event. And we're in, we're delighted to have welcome volunteers from as far away as Ghana, Morocco, Mongolia, Sri Lanka, Russia, and Brazil. So I'd like to take a moment to invite some of those wonderful volunteers out on stage for a group picture.
Someone: Thank you.
Someone: Are you Mike
Someone: SAP.
Someone: For to fight this stage so there's room for more.
Someone: Anna.
Someone: Anna.
Someone: My voice, my voice unfortunately is still not returned. I just want to say our volunteers come from more than 60 countries around the world. Include university students, as well as university professors from very far off lands. We're incredibly grateful for, for, for everything that they do for the time that they give, and we just like to ask you to give them one final huge round of applause. Thank you.
Someone: 10 seconds.
Someone: That was just amazing.
Someone: Okay, so while, while they clear off stage I'm just going to I'm going to move ahead, we're going to continue with our incredible program. So, the quest to save the planet was dealt yet another blow when America pulled out of the Paris Climate accord in 2016. And since then, scientists are increasingly pessimistic over the future of our life on Earth. So we have to ask ourselves whether it's now too late to avert catastrophe on a global scale. And if we are able to avoid a climate catastrophe. Well, how are we going to do it. So our next panel are working tirelessly tirelessly to deliver a roadmap for the world. So please welcome to the stage. Shin light of CGTN Europe convener of mission 2020 Christiana vigorous and Google's chief Sustainability Officer, Kate Brandt.
Someone: Hi everyone. Great to be back on center stage, always makes me feel like a rock star, but these are the real rock stars of helping us save the planet.
Someone: So, Kate has actually helped to green the US Navy, as well as the White House, and she's now doing that at Google, not just for Google itself, but Google's tools so that it has an impact globally.
Someone: But my question is this week we saw the US formally withdraw from the Paris accord, how can we still save the planet. When we don't have buy in from the world's largest economy. Okay. Well first of all, just to say I mean such an honor to share the stage with Christiana who made Paris possible and I think your, your impact is being felt so I feel like big hand for Christiana for all the amazing work she did on Paris.
Someone: So I think you know we we've seen this coming right since 2017 we knew this was the path and I think as our CEO Sundar Pichai said at the time you know we find it very disappointing and we believe it's critical continue to build a cleaner and healthier world for everyone. So we're very much staying the course and I think, you know, now all the great work Chris john is doing with many businesses we are aligned with we are still in it's critical for business to keep doing this work and frankly, we've been at this at Google for a really long time we committed to operate as a carbon neutral company over a decade ago in 2017 So for us it makes business sense it's the responsible thing to do. And we're going to stay the course Christiana can like jump in on that. So, I'm.
Someone: The White House has started the process of withdrawal from Paris and they will complete that a year from now, a day after the next election in the United States. So first thing that we can do is actually for those who live in the United States and are US citizens. Be really careful about how you vote, that's probably, number one, and point number two,
Someone: point, point number two is that actually, despite the White House, not having any lights on, on any issue that is worthwhile. Despite that, 60% of the economy of the United States continues to decarbonize, including Google, and the those players in the economy that includes cities, states corporations universities financial institutions, continue to decarbonize because they know it's good for their own bottom line. That's why they're doing it. All the rest of us. I actually invite us all to let go of this obsession that we have, you know, I think when I hear those announcements, the picture that I get in my head is we're going down a highway with many different lanes. There are speed lanes, some are in the high speed lane, google. Some are in the slow speed lane but there are many different things, and everybody is moving in the same direction everybody has chosen their own vehicle of engagement, then there is one vehicle rather large that steps out moves over to the lane to the, what is it called the lane on the other side, that lane where you you know if you have a shoulder, the shoulder Thank you, one vehicle moves over to the shoulder flashes orange lights, and then everybody does this rubbernecking and looks over at the vehicle that is flashing orange lights. You know what happens if you're driving a vehicle and you look over you, you could crash. So, that vehicle that is on the shoulder lane is there because they have a problem. Let's let them figure out that problem, they're causing a problem for themselves. There are no other vehicles no other country following that example, just let them be. And let us continue on the course that we know we have to have okay this is not going to stay there forever in the White House, so we don't get sidetracked. Don't get sidetracked we stay the course.
Someone: What exactly is Google doing to make it easier for people to save the planet. Yeah, so at Google, as I said you know the way that we think about sustainability is really a two part strategy. First, it's about striving to build sustainability into everything we do in our global operations, but also we want to think about how we utilize technology to enable everyone individuals policymakers businesses NGOs to build a more sustainable world together. So we're looking at opportunities at the community scale we have a wonderful tool that we that I last time I saw Christiana we were just launching at the global climate action summit called the environmental insights Explorer. And this is a tool that we partnered with the global covenant of mayor's to build. And the idea behind it is very simple, which is that cities represent over 70% of global climate emissions. So if we are able to address these challenges that cities are having to support them with data and insights, we can take a huge chunk out of climate. And so what this tool enables is to get better insights into transportation emissions building emissions, and then the potential of rooftops across the city for solar. And so we've now rolled this tool out and 50 cities just as of this week, including several here in Europe in Finn Gall county and Ireland in Cracow Poland in Birmingham and several others so we see that as one of the really concrete things we're doing. And then there's many other examples that I'm sure we can get into later in the conversation Christiana now the common thought is that public policy stifles and controls and technology disrupts and empowers, how can the two work together in public private partnerships to help us save the planet. Well, first of all, we're not saving the planet. The planet is 4.5. billion years old I was invited to a happy birthday party to the planet, big cake 4.5 billion years worth Okay, we're not saving the planet, the planet will be here after we leave if we decide to be so stupid to actually make conditions, completely impossible for us. So we're not saving the planet. She's fine. She will survive in a very different form. What is the problem is, are we going to survive. Are we going to actually be able to thrive. Our company's going to be able to be profitable. Will people still be able to inhabit the land in which they are. Those are will they have to be forced to migrate out of their out of their territory because it's become so hot food scarcity water scarcity that they can stay there. That is what we're actually trying to avoid as 101 11,000 scientists have just come out to say, emergency on climate change, we have to get with it. And it's actually three things that we need to come together, we need certainly technology, and that is big tech but it's also other kinds of technology energy technology, certainly energy efficiency, many other all of the technologies that will help us, including high tech for restoring degraded lands. So technology plays a big role policy has to come hand in hand. In order to make it easier for the big tech companies, but also for cities and others smaller jurisdictions to align themselves into a decarbonisation path, but then we also need finance. So this is actually a three part effort, it's a it's a stool with three legs. Its finance technology and policy, and the store that sits on top is customer preference and customer signals to governments to corporations and to financial institutions, so we can all do something now Kate, I was curious how you managed to green. The Navy and the white house because working with bureaucracies, one of my worst nightmares. Yeah, I think it my experiences and all the roles I've had doing this work is that you really need two things you need leadership at the top, you need someone that is really committed and clearing the path. And then you need the grassroots you need that engagement from whether it's an employee base or a citizen base to really demand the change and help to drive the change. And so I had the honor of serving as the energy advisor to the Secretary of the Navy Ray Mavis several years ago, and we set out a very ambitious goal which is that we wanted the Navy to operate on 50% alternative energy by 2020. So that was everything from advanced biofuels for ships and planes. A gigawatt of renewable energy for military installations, and even looking at how we can increase energy security and loss of node and decrease loss of life in a theater environment by changing our relationship to fuel. So I think, you know, when we have these kind of amazing leaders with a vision people like Chris jona, there's so much that we can do. And when you don't Christiana.
Someone: Well then when you don't you send them a little message because this actually has to be both top down, and bottom up. You know, if we had a lot of time to change the track that we on then we could say, Okay, let's go for the systemic changes because those are the ones that have the most impact, but we've actually run out of time. And so because of that, we need to have it be systemic changes top down, but also bottom up and that's why I am very, very grateful for millions of people, mostly young people but not all young people who are out there on the streets, demonstrating their rage and their anger about the fact that we lazy adults have not done our job. And I'm very glad to be reminded of that every single day. Kate, we're at the web summit, I've seen a lot of startups and their solutions, not a lot of them are focused on climate change, and also for the ones that are in different businesses, how do they implement sustainability and circularity from the early stages of the technologies. Yeah, so I think it's so amazing to be amongst this community of startups here and we had the opportunity to make an announcement yesterday about our new Google first startup accelerator, that's focused on the Sustainable Development Goals. So what we're looking to do is empower social impact startups starting in EMEA the Middle East and Africa to help provide training around technology so to give better access to tools like AI, but also to help advise and think about how do you monetize the social impact startup, and also how do you get more access to capital to grow those businesses so you know it Google we're very connected to our startup roots we haven't been a startup for a long time but we really want to help to fuel this community and support them and really support them and and utilizing technology to build these businesses that can go out in the world and have impact, whose job was asking you this backstage. When I grew up in impoverished China in the 70s, we were leaving very eco friendly lifestyles, very little energy usage, very little meat consumption, but it wasn't exactly comfortable. So how do you balance out individual's needs for this comfortable lifestyle with being eco responsible. Well, the good thing is that we don't have to choose. And it's actually quite remarkable that decarbonizing our products our value chains our supply chains our services, actually does two things at the same time. Number one, it really puts a very firm base under long term value because there's no doubt that we are in a decarbonizing society and then decarbonizing the economy, and there is less and less tolerance for high carbon assets products or services. And so those will lose value very soon. Let's hope that we can transition smoothly without jumping to distress. And those are the companies that align themselves there are the ones, small companies or large companies are the ones that are actually going to have business continuity. At the same time, so that's profit right, but at the same time, addressing climate change is actually synonymous with addressing poverty, because if the to take the example of electricity which is the easiest to explain. If the legacy, electricity, industry, which is fossil fuels had been able to address poverty had been able to electrify 1 billion people on this earth, that's still in the year 2018 19 still do not have electricity and hence are still in abject poverty, if they could do it they would have done it 2030 or 40 years ago because they've been added for a long time, they can't do it, because the systems that they use the long grids are too expensive, they can't extend those lines to the very very disseminated population that is in poverty. You can only do that with renewable energy you can only put a little solar panels on people's roofs, it doesn't matter where you live. So, we're actually at moment a very exciting moment in which actually it is entirely possible that within 10 to maybe 15 I'm hoping 10, we can actually electrify every single home on this planet, and that already helps to bring those people out of abject poverty because it gives them at least the minimum of quality of life so we can do two things with addressing climate change right, we can have profitability stability, and we can address poverty. Who doesn't like that.
Someone: The coal mines and the oil fields wouldn't like that. Well this is true but you know what they've had their time, that they've been around. I'm 63, I'm already at that age in which people should be saying thank you very much Christiana we're now going to put you in a retirement home, you've done your thing, off you go. That's what we should be doing with the fossil fuels right, we should say, thank you very much, because, actually, they did give us all of this.
Someone: They have given us an incredible amount of development, and you know, creature comforts and so we shouldn't blame them because they didn't know at the time. We should thank them honor them for what they have done and say thank you, that's enough of you go into the retirement. Done. Next. Do you think that's feasible Kate. It's such a part of many national economies. I think what we're seeing is tremendous penetration of renewable energy globally you know costs coming down dramatically having access to carbon free energy and clean energy in many more markets around the world, and I think a key piece of that has been the role of corporate renewable power buying so you know we're members of a large consortium called the renewable energy buyers alliance of hundreds of companies that have committed to match 100% of their energy with renewables, we've been doing this since 2010 We're the largest corporate purchaser of renewable energy and our philosophy has been, how can we use our demand for electricity to help green grids around the world to build consortiums with other companies to partner with utilities to partner with policymakers to really push this change, so it works for everyone so we get cleaner, healthier electricity. And so we can solve for climate. So how does this figure into the whole concept of different levels of development, for example, developing nations with low production costs that will be using more energy and they probably have dirtier energy, and then there will be more polluting, and they have more fragile economies and populations. And they're making the cheap goods for developed nations. And this is all part of the global economy right now. How is that going to change well and that's why it is so wonderful that in countries, certainly like India and increasingly like China renewable energy in particular to be very specific solar energy is actually cheaper than installed cold. Let me say that again, new installation of solar is cheaper than installed cold, just on a level is cost of energy comparison, right, because as Kate says the cost of energy is coming down. And in case you haven't noticed, the sun never sends us a bill for that. Has anybody ever received a bill from the sun for their solar energy. Has anybody ever received the bill from the wind, you know, the fuel has a very predictable cost, zero. So the only cost in renewable energy is actually the installation of the infrastructure that's why it will come down in price. Conversely, fossil fuels. In case you haven't noticed, are very very volatile in their price completely unpredictable. And in fact, you can bet on that continuing to be the case. You can also bet on a very very predictable price of renewable fuels, and that's zero, and many countries are beginning to realize that, and developing countries I come from a developing country myself in Costa Rica we produce all our electricity with renewables, ya because we have them thank heavens, but also because it's cheaper, it's safer. It's much more healthy for our air quality, and we don't have to import these fossil fuels that are getting more expensive every day. So it just makes fundamental sense in particular for developing countries. Okay, we have two and a half minutes left. If you were to advise startups and individuals, three things to do, what would they be. Yeah, so, you know, we've been thinking about this a lot of the role of individual action because we think it's critical to empower people I think we're all very concerned about the science that what we're learning, but also we all have a role to play in the solution. And so one tool that we've felt that we think can be really helpful to people and putting the science based information in their hands is called the earth plan your planet. So we teamed up with our local Science Museum, the California Academy of Sciences, and we said look we have three major impacts on the planet as an individual, how we use energy how we use water and food waste. And so this is a tool that's designed to be used at home it's user friendly it's fun for kids as well. And it gives you tips like how to stock your fridge so your food doesn't spoil as quickly and that turning down your hot water heater actually can save you a lot of energy and other simple tools like that and so that's something you know it's just one example but that we think is really critical to give people data driven tools that they can use in their daily lives, to reduce their own impact and that actually adds up to be incredible Christiana. I'm actually quite grateful for them too, because the fact is that every single one of us as individuals, as members of a family as members of a community as CEOs of companies as investors in every role that we play, and we play many different roles at the same time on this. Fantastic Planet. Every single one of us has to, it's not. Maybe it would be nice to know every single one of us has to cut in half the emissions that we are producing today.
Someone: In 10 years, so that doesn't mean you have to go to zero, you're not going to turn into a little angel with no footprint on this earth, don't worry about that you're far from that danger, but we do have to cut our footprint into half. Over the next 10 years, frankly that's doable. And if you have a calculator, where you can go and simply figure out what is the carbon footprint of yourself your home, your company, your flights your whatever whatever you're going to do, and then put a plan, put a plan in place of how you're going to cut in half. The that footprint. By the year, 2030, if we all did that we would address climate change in time. Thank you so much to our eco rock stars, Kate and Christiana, and I hope you feel energized and empowered by their words. Thank you.
Someone: I firmly arrived on the world's taxing the fourth largest tech market in all of North America, there is room for everyone to succeed, we are building an ecosystem, this isn't going to happen overnight. Technology is all around us Toronto is having a moment, you can decide technology is great, but it's about people. We all come together as a people, the world looking right in front of us is if we don't succeed. Together, we're all going to fail separately.
Someone: So good afternoon again Lisbon. My name is Sunil Sharma I'm the managing director of TechStars Toronto and the co host of the collision conference which we just heard, and as you have heard many times over the course of this event, there is this incredible event that's going to happen in Toronto in June of 2020 called collision. And I'm asking you. Yeah, June 20 walked in your calendars as your departure date for Toronto. So, Toronto is a truly amazing city. It's quickly become one of the most important innovation centers in the world. It's North America's fourth largest city. It has North America second largest financial market, and its third largest tech sector overall. And it also has, you know, North America's number one airport and it's less than a 90 minute flight for more than 100 million Americans, and as managing director of TechStars, which is the worldwide network that helps entrepreneurs succeed. I am so fortunate to be able to work and live in Canada surrounded by so many talented, capable ambitious world changing entrepreneurs.
Someone: And one of the great things about TechStars is we get to invest in companies from anywhere in the world, and I've been able to do just that and plan to do it much more. And when a big event like collision or web summit comes to your home city. It brings the world to you and it allows you to source, great global talent, without even having to leave home. So the most important thing about Toronto, is that it's the world's most diverse city, in fact 52% of the population are born outside of Canada, making them immigrants. And so I've brought out on to stage two TechStars Toronto founders that came to Canada from far away, and are now building world dominating companies, calling Canada home. So, at Mandela Calacanis is the CEO of Eddie travels a global travel tech startup and Brian King Winnie is the CO CEO and co founder of Cora pay, which is an amazing FinTech company from Lagos, Nigeria, Edmonds from Vilnius Lithuania so just maybe a quick comment on what brought you to Canada and how the experience has been. Thank you. Sunil ball I thought this been Hello,
Someone: My name is Edelman bas I'm from Venice Lithuania. I'm co founder and CEO of Eddie travels and AI assistant to find the best flight deals. We have over 50,000 users all around the world. Last month he did more than 30,000 flights searches, check us out and Eddie travels calm. Then we were thinking, how do we expand and set up in presence in North America. We chose Toronto, according to our research versus no best way to enter US markets Canada markets, Toronto has an amazing tech scene has amazing investors, amazing Dallas talent for sales and marketing. And the best is a lot closer to Europe than San Francisco so you got three hours of the flight. It's a lot closer. The time zone. So we had a great, great time in Toronto and we came there for TechStars. We had amazing time at collision. If you're looking to set up sales presence in North America, go to collision. In June, next year, and see it yourself. Okay. Brian what's your experience been like. So, first of all, thank you so much for having us here. I love this guy, listen if you don't know Sunil you're missing out. Do you meet this guy Alicia.
Someone: So moving from from Africa to Canada was amazing and life changing actually not just for the company as a whole but even for me personally, when you, when we started the TechStars program in Toronto, were able to incorporate in headquarter Cora pay in Toronto and that changes the conversation when you're talking to, you know, investors or companies for doing partnerships right they're more comfortable doing deal with the, with the company that's, you know, headquartered in Canada, and and Cora pay is actually digital banking as a service for Africa we enable like companies and businesses to launch their own digital payment solution in 24 to 48 hours. Right. And we actually had collision. We won the People's Choice Award. And that was amazing, we I mean around guts oversubscribed after that, on an on a personal level.
Someone: I mean we in Africa we don't do snow right. But we've moved in, literally the coldest month, which is February, and so me walking into the office sometimes on Christmas wherever What do I do a hats off hat.
Someone: But besides that, that's the only downside is Walter right Canada has been amazing for us. We got to even witness the Toronto Raptors winning the basketball championship. Yeah, I mean that was, I've never seen a more live citizen my entire life actually. And so, I really want to appreciate this. Sara toenail and Toronto, Canada for, you know, changing our lives and being able to connect Africa to North America. Okay. I really appreciate you guys that's great. So once again. See you at collision June 20 the 24th in Toronto TechStars applications are open Find me on that incredible web summit app, welcome the next panel at on stage. Thanks guys.
Someone: Thank you to Cynthia for that and hopefully we'll see as many of you as possible in Toronto for collision. Now it's never been more complicated to market brand value and engage with your customers around the world from social media to geopolitical uncertainty global marketing is a challenge that only the best minds can master. And our next speakers are marketing masterminds we're about to ask them what are the definitive trends, from the front lines that was shaped their outlook in 2020 here to discuss please welcome to the stage with Martin Swant of Forbes we have president and CEO of Weber Shandwick Gail Heimann, Chief Marketing Officer of Lamborghini Katia Bassi and the Chief Marketing Officer of Burger King, Fernando Machado.
Someone: Alright well hey everybody happy day three I guess it is. And thanks to you all for joining. You know, there's a lot of places we could take this conversation right I mean, but I wanted to start with a fact that a lot of people here might know but the average cmo, I forget who cites this, but I'm only last about 18 months, but you both been in that position for a lot longer so congratulations, by the way. Yeah. So, I wanted to start with Fernando I know that, obviously, everyone knows your work from Burger King, you've had a lot of award winning campaigns. But it's interesting. More recently, you've also been pinch hitting also for for Popeye's yep yeah which which I mean, I don't know how big of a deal it is here in Europe right now but right now there's a big chicken sandwich war between Popeye's and chick fil a and uh who has the best hot chicken sandwich and regular chicken sandwich but how do you how do you stay nimble when you're thinking about these different brands that you work with very different personalities, but like, how do you manage your time with that, I think, I think it has to do a lot with like having the right people in place, empowering the people to to do the work, and making sure that you're setting a vision, defining what success looks like, and letting the magic happen you know like we have like a very strong team we have a very strong culture.
Someone: So it's not Fernando doing the stuff I surely help and I coach and attract talent. But you need to have a team in place and empower them to make calls and move fast, you know. Yeah, so that's interesting to you like thinking more globally with Burger King you guys recently delivered whoppers to people in traffic and Mexico right, we did that. So how do you decide what stunts, or what campaigns to do and in the various markets. I think we, I think we what what we try to do is to have very clear, like, what is the key strategic objective for the, for the brand and for the company. And then that trickles down to each individual market. We are doing a lot of investment in digital. You know what I mean like a digital is really changing fast food or to ESA which is the name of our industry. The lever is a key. Fink into that I mean that even has been surging with all the aggregators enabling fast food to actually do delivery so I cannot rely on massive budgets to sponsor the World Cup, or the Olympics, my competitor can do that, I cannot afford that type of generic stuff so I need to do things that will be noted that people are going to talk about. And that's why we believe so much that creativity can be a source of competitive advantage. So in the case of Mexico, like we knew that we had to invest in delivery, but just doing a sponsorship or a TV ad would probably not cut through. I don't have media enough to make that cultural. So we went for delivering the traffic jam which is incredibly relevant to that specific target audience, awesome, great. Well it's interesting to thinking about just the different types of brands that we have on stage right now. And you know a lot of people have had Burger King, you know, very accessible couple of bucks for for a sandwich. Not everyone can afford a Lamborghini. And I mean I, as a journalist I definitely can't. And so, like, but I think it's interesting to the difference in marketing, a lot of like you said like strategic marketing, but you still have a lot of broader brand campaigns to but Lamborghini is very specific you know and and the way you market to the customer versus doing a broad ad, you don't do any ads. Correct. So how do you think through that when you're thinking through what is Lamborghini customer these days. I know you have a lot of emerging markets in China and the Middle East, so it would love for you to talk about that that personal interaction in that and how that relates across the brand now Yeah, you're right, Marty so we don't do advertising because of course it's very important for us to have a direct connection with our customers so we are lucky enough to have a very young customer base 32% of our customers are below 40 years old. They're very energetic and what they look for is really to be part of the Lamborghini family therefore, for us is key to meet them to organize activities where of course they can test the car but mainly, they have a personal relationship with the brand and with the executive and with the brand, because the most important thing for them is not to be a number. So they love the idea that they have a personal relationship. And they feel that when they buy a Lamborghini, they're really someone for the company and this is how we deal with those customers.
Someone: And in speaking of the aspirational aspects been interesting thinking about, you know, another a lot of cryptocurrency people here everyone wants like what they made it once they've had a Lamborghini. And I don't know like I'm just kind of curious like what is, but it's not. I mean obviously the two very different things. But what is it like when you're thinking about the aspiration of the brand and like how do you put that message across to somebody, no matter what industry they're in no matter where the money or their, their ability comes from, how do you convey that what are like, what are the phrases that you're thinking through when you're thinking about what is Lamborghini brand these days. I believe that the three pillars of the strategy so being very informal, because one of the pillars is informal luxury is one of the key words for our work. I mean for us is important always to welcome our customers and also those who will come become customers in a way that it's very familiar. So, in our exclusive NASA we are inclusive, very much so. And therefore, you know, we are an aspirational brand for sure but at the same time, you know we are people centric and probably this is something that is very clear especially through our digital platforms, CO, Gail I know that you work across a lot of different brands. Everything from Barbie to Anheuser Busch to a lot of others. And so, what is some of the trends that you've noticed more recently when it comes to the consumers of these different markets and how do you think through that for these different brands I know that there's been a big transformation of Bobby recently that you guys have been working on. Yeah, no one Thank you It's great to be here I've never before uttered the words Lamborghini and Burger King, let alone. Share shared the stage with Twilio So, yeah, when you think i think what we're seeing and this is a little bit. What we're seeing across marketing is this thing that we call the power of an idea to earn attention right so it used to be a world where the TV series TV commercials were out there and they were, they were moving people towards whatever brand or or idea there is and now it's really about and I think Fernando credit to you this is what you're doing. It's idea after idea after idea that intrinsic in it is the is the power to earn attention, and I feel like no matter what channel no matter what incredible technology, no matter what one is doing digitally or using data, you still need that idea that moves people I mean one could argue the Lamborghini is that idea and and that's. So I think no matter whether one is working to your point on it, on, on Budweiser or Barbie, or in FinTech that that idea is the intrinsic thing and i think that i think that lives on in perpetuity. Sure. I know, one of the trends. More recently, not just recently it's been kind of bubbling up is the idea of brand purpose and, and it's. At its core, it sounds just like a bunch of buzzwords but I know a lot of people have been thinking about how do brands tie in with different causes whether it's the environment, certain brands that are taking a stance in the US, you know, in favor of gun control. It's a lot of hot button issues in the US and abroad that brands are now having to choose and how do they be a part of that, what do they stand for. And I'm kind of curious how does that play out in the different brands that you work for are there certain causes that you're wanting to be a part of now and then how do you decide to take that risk because everyone knows these brands loves these brands and like how do you help to elevate these very important issues to the broader dialogue. I think that, at least for in our case, or I think in all cases I think when it's done well, when it works well. it's because the brand was able to find a purpose or a cause that authentically aligns with what the brand history and what the brand stands for. I think that just speaking causes out there to make you look good or to try to be part of the conversation.
Someone: It's something that many brands have done. I think that we even we have done in some instances, but it doesn't work. You know what I mean like it's a blip that off StockX ability that doesn't last and doesn't really move the brand. So in our case, we are a brand that wants to be very inclusive, we welcome everyone. We encourage people to have it their way, we put the crown on everyone's had. So we try to associate ourselves with with causes or with Berg with purpose that has to do with inclusion in when we do it right and it's not just a stunt. It works like the bullying I know you guys recently did a campaign where just to raise awareness about bullying, like how, how did that go over it that did well actually I mean we, we are like close to many schools, sometimes, you know like that we see bullying happening even inside of our restaurant. And as I said like, if you want to encourage people to be their way, bullying is is a force that goes against that one campaign that I'm particularly proud of and did really well with proud Walker, but I'll do our part we did back in 2014 is very important that is still relevant today, but like that campaign even change the way we approach diversity internally, like a we started to work much closer with the, the Human Rights Campaign, we push to drive our corporate Equality Index up, we finally reached 100% this year, when we started was 55 which not something to be proud off. But that's my point it's more than just a film is more than just a stand. There is a program in place and the company believes on that, and that's the reason why we're doing it. Sure. Katia I know that you guys have been doing a like an electronic Lamborghini, is that right let your dry hybrid sorry hybrid Yes, thank you for fact checking me. But tell us about that like how do you decide to market that and then also how does that compare to say like, Tesla, for example, it's a completely different thing because with Lamborghini we decided to start with a hybrid car, that is our CNN. It's a limited edition Karas 63 pieces, really, you know, for people the level so the level of customization that we are able to dress with this car. So we are talking about the car, where you can talk with our designers and really design the car of your dreams, so for Lamborghini This is something really very important because we are playing in the age of view, and the view to view means that the level of customization is really you know at the highest peak. So, having what we call few off cars is one of the element of the strategy and coming back to Fernando point, I totally agree because also as Lamborghini we talk about gender. So for us, the customer is someone who feels comfortable in their skin and is as a specific personality so it doesn't matter if it's a man or a woman, we don't address a specific message to a man or a woman. Because first of all, the car doesn't know if you had a woman driving yeah hey. But most important for us is really you know that Lamborghini is perceived as an epi brand, a brand of inclusion so we really encourage women to drive more Lamborghinis Gail What are you noticing when you're thinking of more broadly, see like thinking in the next year and right now what are some of the consumer trends that you're noticing that may be kind of echo across these different industries that you work in. Yeah, and I think you hit on it a little bit with the notion of purpose right as we're able to use more and more data to reach our customer or consumer. You know, in a way that's super atomized and super personalized, then what is the brand stand for and how do you telegraph that and i and i think Fernando you started to talk about I think it's super important now that we cannot just bolt on an idea or a cause it does have to live within because we're accountable, not only to the consumer base but to the employee base and to the stakeholders, so you can't have a cause, if you're not thoughtful about okay what's my supply chain doing what's my board chain. What's my board doing, where am I institutional investors like all of those things you have to live it because you're, you're accountable in the world for those. And so I think PR purposes is a big thing I think that notion of how we're telegraphing big ideas in an era of personalization where we're doing the retail part of our jobs and what else, what else are we doing out there, how are we building communities. How are we creating enduring brands in a very short term, focused world right yeah that's. Speaking of short term it I want to ask about a couple particular platforms that I guess maybe pertains more to youtube since you don't do the ads but Tick Tock has been growing massively in the US lately or everywhere globally, but especially in the US. Is that a platform that that you guys are using for your brands right now and how does that factor in.
Someone: To be honest, if you we never breathe for platform.
Someone: We breathe for ideas, and that's why I like so much Gail's first answer. Yeah and I find it fascinating how many companies, sometimes even CMOS but definitely around the C suite, don't understand the need for big creative bold ideas to move business and brands forward, and in a world of short term mentality. In a world of like data driven short couple of short term, that's probably one of the reasons why the tenure of the CMO is so short. I mean, like, which is a contradiction because if it were longer maybe you could prove some of that so many times we do things with Snapchat, Twitter, or gagne augmented reality we've played with all those technologies but the brief was never the technology or the platform, the brief was for the idea and the idea, took us to the platform. It happens naturally I think that the creative guys that work with us, they're thinking about platforms and how to innovate in platforms, but when they come just hey let's do something with Tick tock, it doesn't fly with us. If it flies, it was just like, Hey, there is this big idea in works naturally Intertek StockX Then let's do it. Sure. Okay, was interesting to you thinking about that juxtaposition between like the, the need for a quick return just to prove that a CMO is performing, but also thinking longer term I'm thinking a lot of the issues that we've seen recently Facebook and YouTube and whether it's misinformation fake news hate speech, like that. It seems like a lot of people feel beholden to. I know it's the idea but also think about platform, people feel like they have to stick on these platforms because that's where the audience is. That's where the quick return is for app installs or sales, but yet it seems like a lot of people are starting to wonder if, like an advertiser's ethics are kind of in congruent with public sentiment So, like, do you plan to spend less on. I know, again, it's the idea but do you think that advertisers will spend less on these bigger platforms in 2020, especially as we go into a pretty contentious political year.
Someone: I think that advertisers will be where people are. And I think that what we can do with the responsible thing to do is to work together with some of these platforms to solve some of the issues that were actually even difficult to predict that they would exist. You know what I mean like and in my experience with most of the platforms platforms has been one in which they're open to having that dialogue, you know like we had issues of our ads being served in in videos that like we didn't want to be associated, but unfortunately with people watching those videos so the the algorithm automatically serve the videos there in by talking with the platform we were able to solve that problem. I really believe in working together to be honest, Shiran and I do think was in it. We will have both an opportunity and a responsibility to educate people on how to interpret news how to look at what they're saying right I agree advertisers are going to be where the people are, but can we help people understand what's being moved on those channels, and maybe maybe we as an industry can do that. Sure. And I'm on a related topic I know we're here in Europe GDPR has been a big issue here in states and everywhere lately in the last year and in the US, we have a law that goes into effect on January 1 the California consumer Privacy Act which is massively changing the way that marketers have to think about data driven advertising personalization everything else. How is that affecting your businesses and, and how do you both comply but still personalized like what's what's been the big change for each of you.
Someone: I would say personally that having a direct relationship with our customers because we have to know them very well or their taste is what they want, etc. is for us very important to have the opportunity that they give us, you know, the chance to treat their data in a proper way of course. But if you are in the luxury business. I would say that it's easier than in the mass market business because they really want to be connected, and they accept that, you know, if they have to pay a fee to be connected, it's worth it because we react in a way that they are expecting us to react once again as I said before, so for us as Lamborghini, what we see is more and more. We have people that are happy to share their needs and their behaviors. Just because we are able then to react in a certain way that they really love. Sure.
Someone: If you want to weigh in on i think i think it's somewhat similar. And I think we are learning to, you know, we are like completely like beefing up our tech teams and in the legal side of the team to help us navigate that like the environment. We haven't had bad experiences on, on, on that area, but it's something that we need to be very close all QSR or fast food brands are investing a lot in tech, you have the rise of mobile apps you have like customization terms of coupons. You see, players.
Someone: Trying like different like customization in terms of the middle board or drive through metal board so there is a lot going on in the thing that we're all learning. Sure, I think, a listen there's a world of data that's open Johnson, it's just opens this massive opportunity but the reality is that re educating our people about ethics and about using data ethics ethically is, is, is incredibly important so yes we have new staffs of compliance people but just getting people to think and as as they as they pull in the data and how to how to use it in the right and appropriate ways. So, in the last bit here I want you to talk about kind of the future of tech obviously we're here at web summit. I know a lot of brands have been building in house like labs studios are partnering with agencies to create ways of thinking about emerging tech whether it's AR VR a lot of voice stuff. I'm kind of curious if each of you could talk about how are you trying to foster innovation and what's maybe one example of using an emerging technology within your brands.
Someone: So, in Lamborghini we use now virtual reality to go into the details and specs the car for example, this is something that the clients really appreciate. Because sometimes they're not able to come to some targeted is where the Lamborghinis quarter is that of course it's an experience itself. And therefore, to try to get closer to them, we use virtual reality so they can be really immerse in that atmosphere. Sure. Awesome.
Someone: Yeah, I think I mean it recently, we took our, our innovation, groups of people and kind of move them to the center of the company so innovation could permeate everything we do not again not to cloister it but to push it through. I wanted one of the interesting things we did relatively recently with AR and VR and I think when you think of AR and VR you think of the headsets and you think of gamers and you think of all those things but we used it to help people feel what it was like to have a migraine headache. And so, so, in a very to create empathy in a very different among a very different group of people. So, and that previous success when I was for a brand called excedrin. Cool. And last year we like, we are very focused on Joon two pillars. When it comes to tech one pillar is to improve guest service. Right. I mean, so we are playing with mobile ordering payment we are playing with customization. In digital channels you're playing with cell phone and kiosk with artificial intelligence, playing with the motherboard and things like this, and the other is to engage and communicate with with with people. And I have example moves you know like a warp tour which you touched. I think it was a really cool example that this mix of communication bragging rights of doing something fun and commerce. We did burn that app, which was something really fun with augmented reality, I don't have time to explain it here but if you search on YouTube burn that add case study, you'll see the stuff in there is much more common so I'm very excited about technology on this two specific pillars. Awesome. Well that's all the time we have thank thank you to all three of you and thanks for being here. Thank you.
Someone: trends unfolding and self driving cars ride hailing connectivity and micro mobility have offered great promise so far as well as raising money valid questions to discuss where we're heading and what mobility in 2025 could look like will welcome four founders who are leading the way in the space, please put your hands together for a Tim Stevens of cnet's leading the conversation with co founder and CEO of scooter sharing unicorn Lima Brad Bao, founder and CEO of car sharing company Getaround sam Zaid the co founders of Sutton Alf pioneers, Tom tom Corinne Vigreux and autonomous afraid unicorn, TuSimple, TuSimple, rather show de how.
Someone: Thank you, everybody. I think to my panelists. Now we're talking about what mobility is gonna look like in 2025 which is really not that far away so I wanted to start by talking about a mode of transportation that everybody's probably pretty familiar with the car. The Sam, you're working on a company that's delivering basically peer to peer car sharing so as the person probably most familiar with a car What does a car gonna look like in 2025 Surely it's gonna be pretty familiar or will it be. Yeah, it's actually fascinating when you think about it because everybody is very familiar with a car. And if you think of the, you know, a best selling car typically a four door sedan. It's actually sort of compromise solution to a lot of consumer needs right. Is it the best car for community office, most efficient Probably not. Is it the best car for taking you know the family on a ski trip also probably not the best car for, you know, that's fun car for date night with your partner. Still not the right answer right but yet when we're buying a car. We're thinking okay I need my car to do this, this, this and this and I'm going to keep it for so many years yeah and so you buy the thing that can sort of do everything good enough but not anything really really well.
Someone: Now what we see on Getaround is the best performing cars are actually the more specialized cars, they're the point solutions that when you're accessing the car just for a few hours or a few days, you rent the car you really need that you really want right so you might rent a really compact efficient car, you know do grocery shopping and you may rent a really really fun car for the weekend because you're going to, you know, some sort of event or wine country, and you want you really want to have something you can enjoy. Right. And so I think as we start to look at the shift from ownership to access to mobility on your phone, then that should influence the car form factor towards more specialization and rather than the four or five seats sort of standard car you end up with taking that that those set of use cases and breaking them apart.
Someone: And so, you know, I didn't have the answers your question, but I think what it does mean is services like lime are a great example of like, Hey, here's a form factor that fits a need and does one thing really well. Yeah, I think that's great actually so that gives us more opportunity to delve into these different issues of karma so maybe even more extreme performance cars, rather than buying that big long box pickup truck just because you might buy that one sheet of drywall every year and now you can just get maybe a smart pickup truck and get that truck the time that you need it. So, assuming that cars themselves are not changing that much, Brad will still have probably a lot of the same problems that we're going to have when it comes to those last mile problems and micro mobility. So, yeah, what is that segment going to look like in five years from now. I think the first the, the way we look at it is we look at what was down the road you know 10 years 20 years down the road and we have a gold pulse right there. And in five years is the middle point towards that. What do we do believe in that given urbanization that's happening globally right now, given the pollution and congestion is getting worse. Right, building more roads and adding more cars is not a solution right it's making the wars and what are we believing in is the fundamentally how we rethink about it in terms of urban planning in terms of form factors and the service we have. So we believe in one thing that we share a lot with your Sam and a Getaround here is number one is purposely built vehicles for that need is the one size catch all the second thing is shared it, you know, if we look at the car industry today is ownership driven and 90% of them are idle on the street taking up a space or down so we believe ensure that will be increasing the efficiency yeah give everyone the access to the vehicle they needed, regardless of the form factor. The third thing we also been a V i think we're getting there well for us. We are our already hundred percent renewable energy, right, it will not be powered by gas, you will be more and more so powered by electricity and also bringing energy. That's what we believe in and we're working towards that right now. And presumably a big part of that is working with local municipalities working with local governments to make sure that there's a strong partnership hand in hand. Is that something that you're continuing to learn about is that something that process. Do you see that evolving disease minister Alys maybe being more open to these discussions. Yeah, yeah, totally yeah isn't we as a company that we see cities as our partners since day one. So every city we go to we sit down with them, months and months ahead, and discuss how we incorporate it into the city, you know, landscape and also we share data with them to help them to do better planning. So fundamentally we're going to shift the user behavior the mentality and also infrastructure as well. We do see them as a longtime partner, but it's such a young industry and we, you know, I believe we're at the beginning of a new era of urban mobility in the city are learning together with us. But lucky enough I think the goals are fully aligned. Cut traffic congestion and reduce pollution, those are the top priority for most of the cities in the world today and Corinne we were talking about this a little bit backstage before we came on this, you know, the goals may be aligned to sometimes the individual goals the different people playing within our not so aligned, do you see that getting better or is this still going to be a challenge. Actually we need to look at. We want to work in here very hard on technologies and that technology is there for purpose. I think the purpose we all have is, is pretty similar. We want safer road. It's not normal today that so many people die on the road, and we want less congested cities. It's not normal that 80% of cars are not utilized during the day we want to give that space back to the citizen. And we want to have a cleaner world, and we want to put it in different ways.
Someone: At Thomson, here we are. So we are into the car we're working on, on Nauto three aspect with all the technology we doing with real time matchmaking and traffic information is really to increase safety on the road autonomous driving will be safer with the high definition mapping and and, actually, you know, we often been asked the question when is self driving going to be a reality. Well, in effect, it doesn't really matter. What's important is we all working to make the world safer. So, all along the way, every little bits of technology that comes to market will play to making the road safer. The way we doing with traffic in the last mile and and to all of us is, is the same thing for reducing congestion and pollution. So I think what's important is we all attacking this problem from a different angle with a lot of very clever technology, which again, is to make the driver back in control, with us increase safety reduce congestion and help. Clean Cities. And of course, autonomy is something that everyone's very excited about but I don't think any of us really think that we'll see a mass adoption to fully autonomous cars within the next five years, which I don't think so. But I Thomas trucking though I think has a lot of potential and being deployed within the next five years, God would you agree, do you see that coming first is one of the first applications of true self driving. Yeah. Certainly I firmly believe that Tom driving cars, you know, we must have still waiting for some fundamental kind of technical development for that for for autonomous driving trucks, it is there. And I will say that by 20 2025, which is the topic of today, that it is going to be even going further being product test, or we will see a first product, rolling on the road, maybe in the US or in Europe, that is fully non human no driver at all, driving by itself will reduce fuel consumption will get cheaper delivery. I think that thing is what we can expect certainly by 2025. There's certainly a lot of reasons for that shortage of drivers being one of the regulations as far as the amount of time that drivers can spend on the road, what sort of challenges though, are between us and being able to implement those kind of things and being able to turn that into a product or a service what things need to change to be able to get those trucks on the road. Well, I think, in the on the highway a lot of infrastructures are already there and the people are driving in the way that you know the people respect each other on Highway, more than we are driving on urban road so I think that is really the point where I believe a ton of driving is more suitable on highway which comes first. Sure, but on the urban driving I think there's a lot of things that we still need to do for example how to get on the onto the, you know, how do we get on or off the robo taxi, for example, maybe there's some collaboration opportunities with lime, you know, for Ruela. Yeah, beautiful partnership for me right here I love it. That's great.
Someone: Grinda High Definition mapping of course will be a huge part of this because these cars need to know every millimeter of every surface of the driving over so can you briefly explain what exactly HD mapping is and how those maps are being generated right now. Yes, I think, to that people are used to GPS GPS is not precisely enough for autonomous driving we need to put the car was in two centimeter position on the road. And there's a lot of debate but everybody now recognizes you need a map and a very precise map. Because sometimes you've got sharp corners, you can't read the lane markings it's raining there is fog. So you need to have sensors in the car and high definition mapping. So two different technologies that, and you actually use and sort of make HD maps and we have millions of kilometers of roads that need to be, again, defined with these high definition mapping so it's a lot of investment. We use a lot of computer vision a lot of AI. It's very intensive, in terms of computing power and, and you need a lot of data. So, and that's the thing that Tom Thomas on barked on people know us for the sap now we've sold 100 million of SAP now we actually democratized navigation. And today we really looking into the future and also bringing real time mapmaking. The other thing is, when you have a car on the road autonomous it needs to know if there was an accident. If a bridge is closed if there's been something happening somewhere needs to know in advance. So all that real time map making understanding the surrounding is what we working on, and that's fascinating because for us it's a bit of a next stage how to make it possible for drivers to drive and enjoy their drive. Let's not forget about driving is fun, as well. And I think, and it should be safe and fun. And whatever we do, the only thing we think about is that car driver that guy that women that family in the car. That needs to enjoy, where it's going want to do it safely wants to explore and that's what we're working on. And that of course is a huge amount of data that's being generated from cars right now on the road or helping to develop those maps and that's a large amount of data, but Sam there's a lot of data that you're learning as well when it comes to cars usage, that trends in car sharing trends, what sort of things are you learning there and what sort of evolution of that sort of usage pattern Do you see what the next five years.
Someone: Yeah, I mean, so we have connected technology that we've developed in pretty much every car on Getaround. And so we're collecting a lot of data and we see, you know, and that means everything from, you know the the data that's on the canvas in the car to, you know how the users are driving. We also obviously have a full process for when there's accidents and things like that. We also have sort of, you know, the claim side of that equation, you know, and we definitely start to see, you know, sort of interesting trends and how people are using cars what they're using them for when they're using them in a city when they take them out of the city, sort of, you know, very high fidelity around. You know when they're sort of driving people have when they're for example using it as a, as a gig driver in a gig economy usage versus, maybe. Driving through the mountains versus. You know commuting. And so there's there's actually some very very interesting data sets that we're starting to develop around, what is the true driver risk and how does that fit to a particular use case on a particular type of car with a pattern. And we see that as something that's that's quite useful. We've also, you know, talked with many autonomous driving companies about how do we, you know, package that data up as training data or useful data for the purposes of, you know, training and autonomous car so there's there's an because a lot of that is real world data it's not, you know, practice data or safety data it's actually. Yeah. And so I think that there's a lot of collaboration there with, you know, cars, in general, that is, we're starting to see happen across the industry.
Someone: And when we talk data. A lot of people think that there's going to need to be a lot of bandwidth for these things, and I think a lot of people expect within five years that 5G will be ubiquitous despite the fact that LTE has been around with this for any more than five years and it's still far from ubiquitous.
Someone: Johnny Do you think that 5G is a requirement for autonomy going forward is that something that every Thomas car will need to have, or is that more of a nice to have kind of, I think the 5G for a tom driving is really icing on the cake, because every moment when that car is driving by itself, its mission critical, so we can't really rely on something like 5G, even though they will give great performance improvements if you have 5G but there's no guarantee that the next second you will still have that 5G capabilities and just take an example that Dr. Tim minutes is from our testing facility in Tucson, Arizona, you'll get some signal issues probably sometimes we dropped with 2g, and if you try one hour east, then there's no signal at all. So these cars need to be basically able to operate, even in completely isolated, right, basically, that's a prerequisite that we have to drive by it's the vehicle has to drive by itself safely. However, if we have that data, for example, even know when there is a you know traffic jam or there is a closure we need to have a clever detour on something, I mean it's always good to have those signals but this information is useful for us to improve the efficiency, rather than guarantee safety. However, I think, for the very earliest stage of a tom thriving application in real world, safety is the number one thing and then comes to efficiency, it's a mix between the historical data which help with prediction and dynamic data which be traffic information. If you don't have it the car was to drive but that's that safety and the fact that you always need to be that have that connectivity is is very important so it's a mix of own born and overboard information, and we're talking High Definition maps then presumably they're going to be changing relatively frequently since they are so precise, how much bandwidth, do you reasonably need to keep a high dimension map updated within a Kahn, yeah so I told again that we have a lot of car driving was a lot of sensors so you bring that that sense you have a base MAP sensor data, a lot of it is automatically updated so some of the curve a tree doesn't change too often so it's just a mix of of incorporating that dynamic data so we have something called auto stream so use it goes to the cloud and come back. But to your point, it also needs to work when you don't have connectivity and I think that's very important. So you have the base map that actually is there and and that's valid, and then you can add some dynamic data. So that's how people drive today let's, let's face it, Tim into the satellite navigation is used by most people in the world. So, in addition to increasing data that we have going on right now we're also seeing a lot more services coming to play of course and I presume that trend is not going to slow down within the next five years, Brad. I think one of the things I'm looking forward to seeing is more and multi modality which is basically instead of me having to book an Uber, go somewhere, then book a lime and go somewhere, be able to say I need to get here and haven't had to figure it out. Is that something that you're looking forward to improving the next few years. Yeah, that's totally do we start a company as a urban mobility company, Nauto scooter Nauto bikes even though we have all of them right we're further experimenting with different form factors and also partnership enables us to do, multi modality as well for the integration with Google Maps which were which were already done, and also partnership with Uber and, you know, potentially with transit as well. We do see our service data user use our services, connecting to the mass transit, and that that is a significant use case as well and also you know, salmon I was joking about it, that using the lime scooter to get to a Getaround car there you can take a weekend trip right and that's another use case, and you know maybe connecting to a truck center. Yeah, any use cases. I know that powered by My Maps we good
Someone: right here everybody walks up Armand arm singing together. So I think the fundamental thing what do we focus on as a user need right instead of, you know, dividing up by Hey, you have to do this or do that and create a friction in between. I think we all share the same vision and same mentality and we are all pushing towards the same goal. And that enable us to do and really think about from the user perspective, and by us I mean, our riders and also city are our user as well. Sam does that process, make you nervous at all that that maybe you're giving away maybe the secret sauce of your company or that maybe somebody would become a little bit more dependent on another mode of transportation than your own by integrating into something like that, no not really at all actually I think just the opposite. We're very excited about that because we believe that you know as you specialize transportation more, you end up with better solutions. And then you yeah you have a, you have a different problem of how you stitch them together in a way that makes sense but you know there's there's way too much. I mean for us. There's we own too many cars right we wait. 30 billion hours every single day globally of cars just parked doing nothing right so we have a massive car overpopulation problem and I think having more modes of mobility I mean people can move away from ownership towards sort of accessing mobility on demand and that for everybody in on this panel I think that's a positive thing. And it's actually very rational and efficient thing for the market and for the consumer. So, you know, did the everybody wins there in even for the OEM who probably don't like the idea of selling fewer cars. Yeah, it doesn't mean they'll necessarily sell fewer cars. It's like when the smartphone came out, you know now people buy phones, every year instead of buying a phone every five years. So, what it really means is you'll turn over cars much faster but they'll just be utilized more. Do you have any thoughts. Yeah, go ahead. I think it will happen I think when you look at the way technology gets accepted the bigger the problem, the faster the technology gets accepted and I think the problems we're trying to solve real problems.
Someone: I live in Amsterdam and the policy has been to really reduce costs into cities and that we have. It's a bike traffic jams but you can see that mobility gets adapted to certain conditions and with technology with electric biking with scooters with companies like lime, you will see these being made available and consumers will actually choose what's better for them. What we here we are enablers we are enablers for cities and for consumers to just choose their mobility. It's always difficult to predict the future but we all working to solve the same type of problems and I think that's at there's a lot of clever technology behind it so it will happen. We are able to bicycle traffic jam Sounds Sounds American ears I must say, but also sounds kind of nice you could have a nice conversation with where we sit here in the rain from that om perspective the Brad, do you have any thoughts in terms of what an OEM might need to do to really capitalize on these changes going forward these changes ownership trends and multi modality and everything else yeah I said so isn't the, it changed quite a bit there the the few things we learned a very interestingly, number one, that when it comes to retail, that the the two thing they need to craft the vehicle not necessarily for what it is purpose for right but they would have like trims all that stuff in the fancy stuff user may not looking forward to. They need the specialized purposes to build a vehicle for their use case, instead of oh I have this letter rapping on it, that's what I'm paying for I think that's one of the shift focus more on the purpose of it and the second thing I think is more interesting and same to us, we design our own scooters, as well, right and what were some IBM, as well, that when, when it comes to providing more as a service, you know, regardless of get around for us we're talking companies that the skill becomes interesting now they have the skill to order size, they can do a lot of faster iterations lot experiments, they can sink down the r&d costs, and also like moldings and all that stuff that it historically, in, in individual retail cars they were not able to afford. So I look forward to fast iterations instead of five years that it come with a new car model, it could be shrink to two years even a year. Now they, you know, observe what's happening in the market and you're looking at it you know for ourselves right Lannen has a fleet and not one to one comparison but lime has a fleet, bigger than the entire FedEx global fleet. And that skill gave us the capability to do a lot of r&d and a lot of experimenting stuff that we can you know further innovate and Corinne Is there anywhere in the world that you see right now that's may be ahead of the curve when it comes to the trends we're talking about areas that that these companies should maybe keep an eye on to, to kind of get a preview of what's coming elsewhere in the world. You may in terms of mobility in general Toby mobility, Ryan sharing car sharing and the overall trends we've been talking about. So I what I see in Europe. This is a very mobility we. There's not one size fits all. We move in different ways in Asia that in the US and in Europe, we move differently in cities than than outside cities. We see like in the panel beforehand the lady to King by Lamborghini you still like driving fast cars and you won't do that in cities but you'll enjoy that outside so there is not one size fits all.
Someone: I think what I'd like to think is that in Europe because of the, the sophistication of our multimodal transport we can actually be a little bit ahead of the game. For once, and we have quite a lot of advances we have some very strong car manufacturer that are working on to software is a big thing and with that we need to bring I think that the thinking about the car drivers in the car, you interact, the whole Coptic design needs to be so differently, again to accommodate these different multimodal transport. So I'd like to think that in Europe we will kind of lead the way that we need to talk to the regulator that that's one side that needs to get work for us but I think we're not as far as one thing to have self driving vehicles and have accepted multimodal transport so close to Daniel one thing. All right, hopefully we're not too far behind in the US or so so thank you very much, everybody. Thank you for joining us. Thank you. Thank you.
Someone: It's very important for conferences like this to exist.
Someone: They enable the movement of ideas, the value of the conference was beyond just the week.
Someone: You got to get your message out to so many people.
Someone: If I had to boil down to one word, it would be inspiring very collaborative very inclusive. It brings in diversity of different talent into the room. The pitch competition was pretty amazing pitching was pretty incredible. There's a lot of hype behind it. I have had a number of people contact me after that pitch were really interested in my company collisions are really exciting event it's really a very clear statement about the position for Toronto.
Someone: Toronto, including our handed kit.
Someone: In September Facebook acquired control labs for a deal reportedly worth between 500,000,001 billion dollars according to Bloomberg. It marks a substantial increase in Facebook investment and ambitions in the hardware space as the control labs tech will be put to use in future AR and VR projects at the social network here to demonstrate how non invasive neural control will transform how we interact with the world forever. Please give a big warm lt Sir, you know, welcome to the co founder and CEO of control labs, Thomas Reardon.
Someone: Greetings.
Someone: Okada jack myself in here to do this talk properly. I'm going to do a quick test.
Someone: Yes, I'm here. Okay, let's get started. So, I want to talk to you about a new version of Outbrain of Your Brain, Brain two point O and how you would use it to control machines, rather than to control mechanical devices, the way you work today. First I want to start with this quick video to give you a taste of our work.
Someone: Good.
Someone: Here there's a person who's learning how to get control of a virtual hand of five fingered hand. They've just put the device on, and they're slowly figuring out how to move into Joe fingers now what's remarkable here is this person was born without a left hand, and they were able to do this and under 90 seconds, very first time they put it on. It's because we're really really good at this in terms of our motor nervous system how we learn to control our own bodies, he can do even more that he can control the forces in his body something he's never done in his entire life. he can generate grasping forces, and he's doing that out of his nerve, not out of the muscles themselves.
Someone: Go forward here now. What is controllers. We're a group of neuroscientists and engineers in New York City. And we're really here to try to bring you a new kind of effortless and joyful control over machines to maximize your capacity to use the full extent of cognitive you and not just the minimal you that can wiggle your fingers.
Someone: I wanted to set it up properly and talk about brain 1.0, how everything you've ever done has happened you learned when you were in the first year to year and a half of your life through a lot of motor babbling how to control your body. You did this exhaustively at a massive rewiring of your entire nervous system. And that allowed you to skillfully control
Someone: your muscles to move yourself in the world, and ultimately to learn how to actually control tools.
Someone: We did this when we lived in caves. And what we've really done in the computing error over the last 50 years, is to repurpose that mechanical manipulative activity that we generate and use it to control machines a keyboard, a mouse, a tablet sales swiping. We're trying to replace all of that now. And instead of you using those same motor skills that you learned as an infant to control the machine and a slow encumbering way instead to do something very very fast using the brain and the signals your brain generates to actually move, it's not such that we make our devices more capable, but how do you become more capable.
Someone: In neural interfaces are how we unlock that. And that brings us to brain two point O, and brain two point O, we actually start with the electrical activity that generates movement, and that we decode that in real time, and repurpose that for control over devices and digital experiences directly, that's what I'm doing here is I'm controlling this presentation, allows me to do new things in virtual reality that I couldn't do by moving my hands or speaking.
Someone: It allows me to imagine a new kind of embodiment like what it would be like to actually be an octopus, and have control over all eight legs in a continuous intuitive fashion.
Someone: That's what augmented reality and virtual reality are asking us to go explore and we have to move behind beyond mechanical devices to go do that. We do it with this device right here.
Someone: And I'm going to show you live for the first time, us doing it on stage so if we can show my hand. This is the same hand that I just showed you my colleague Greg Wayne was doing before. And this is in real time it's really me. And what's cool about this as its individual fingers. I want to tell you this is the mother of machine learning and problems to do this in real time from the actual decay involved output of motor neurons coursing into my arm slit on here, you'll notice the forces I generate are indicated by the intensity of the map here I'll do an intense open hand, etc. Now, my friends going to switch over and show you how we actually use this in virtual reality. One of the things that we've thought about virtual reality is that I don't want to use my hands to grab virtual objects, I kind of want to have the force I want to have Luke Skywalker like powers. I want to be able to manipulate objects at a distance and do things I couldn't even do with my hands. If I try it.
Someone: And when they're ready we'll go.
Someone: Possibly.
Someone: Trust me, it's worth it.
Someone: Wait another 10 seconds. No, but in the next demo.
Someone: Okay, what do you want to try this here. No.
Someone: We have something. No.
Someone: No.
Someone: All right, we're gonna move to the next demo and apologies for that it's a VR demo in which he's manipulating things at a distance and we'll, we'll send you follow up videos to go look at the next thing is going to do is play with something we call paint brush, and this is sort of meant to be how people might collaborate actually an augmented reality and do things simultaneously. So here, Chris is going to draw on a map and what's interesting here it's it's a reimagining of like a drawing app so rather than having a palette tool that you go to all of the different commands of painting and drawing are embedded in his hand and ultimately in his motor nerve, he can control the thickness of the brush, not by going and setting it by but just directly intending a bigger or smaller brush is able to wipe out like if you didn't pick in a race tool, it's embedded in his nervous system, these are all simultaneously available controls he's zooming in and out. As you notice, you can bring up a palette and and change maybe the color of something here, and send us a message. Before we move on to the next demo,
Someone: though, we are also, we are battling the Bluetooth gods in this giant arena.
Someone: Right.
Someone: And he was able to snap his fingers and erase the whole map. Now we're going to do something that's even a little bit crazier. If we can switch to what we call Dynamo rider. So here, rather than basing things on sort of small and covert movements, we're actually going to do something where he's using a single motor neuron in his spine to control this dumping dinosaur this end game that's embedded in Chrome, and what's happening here you'll notice if you come up on Chris's hand you'll notice he's not moving at all that he's able to actually control the stance of one jump at a time with 50 millisecond accuracy, he's trained himself to control this one spinal motor neuron. This is a kind of training you can do in a couple of minutes. And you can learn to control lots of them divergent Lee.
Someone: Chris can move around. What you'll notice is that same motor neuron is active, but we from a decode side understand the difference between when that neuron is trying to control the machine versus when it's just controlling your body. Same neuron. This is insane, that this works. I want to move on to some videos quickly that show you how far our work is going now if we can move to them.
Someone: The first one I think is something that we spent a fortune trying to develop, and it's really the world's most expensive back scratch.
Someone: Now, There's something much deeper and this and that, that's a seven degree of freedom multi jointed arm they can move soon 60 degrees. We can't just map it onto what the hand can do you have to build a new new kinds of things that you would never, you don't use joysticks to control that. But you can learn rapid manipulate Robin manipulation and learning intuitively. One last video to show you in real time I like this because it really gets to where we want this to be powerful I no longer want to fight and correct the auto correction on my iPhone. I don't want to have short messages I want to have the full richness of human language, and to build a manipulate and author, and this is something where we repurposed a very minimal QWERTY keyboard into the hand, something you can learn very very rapidly universities are very very small movements and the actually types, really quite fast.
Someone: There's no keyboard there, you are the keyboard.
Someone: Thanks. Can we move on to my clothes. Thank you very much, so I can do VR. We'll see you again.
Someone: Well that was amazing. Thank you to Thomas Reardon for that. Now one of the amazing things about web summit is bringing people together from incredibly different backgrounds and industries, people that are otherwise very unlikely to find themselves in the same room. And our next panel will do just that, as we'll be joined by an MMA fighter, a platinum selling artist turned entrepreneur, one of the world's leading fashion photographers and the founder of a hugely successful tech company. What do they all have in common. It's simple obsession. I know I'm not talking about the Calvin Klein fragrance. Each of them is obsessed with what they do and it's that obsession that has driven them to where they are today to explore what obsession looks like, and if it is actually happy to be obsessed. Please give a warm welcome to the founding editor of UK wired David Rowan co founder of intercom des Traynor world renowned creative director Rankin MMA fighter a Paige VanZant and music producer artist and co founder of a coin. A Kahn.
Someone: This is going to be the most eclectic session that web summit we have four people who have achieved the greatest heights in four very different worlds, yet they all have a strange ability to focus on the target to sacrifice in the short term, to go long to be absolutely focused and driven in their ambitions and we're going to learn a bit more from the four of them and try and understand if there are some common threads that the rest of us can focus on in our own lives, our own careers.
Someone: This is a Kahn, not only is he a super successful musician, created a couple of record labels that you probably bought music from produced with some extraordinary musicians, Michael Jackson Snoop Dogg, and entrepreneur as well. A diamond mine in South Africa. But most recently. He has helped create a cryptocurrency a coin.
Someone: That is trying to empower entrepreneurs in Africa.
Someone: Paige VanZant is probably the fittest person on the stage.
Someone: The most likely to attack the moderator physically if he says something that she doesn't like she is a mixed martial arts fighter in the Ultimate Fighting Championship. Also, you may have seen her on Dancing with the Stars. I think the last time we looked at were number 15 in the UFC, women's inviting rankings, that you've got to the top as well there's Rankin over there, who has photographed. Pretty much everybody that matters, not just people in fashion, but the queen.
Someone: I was thinking of getting him to take a picture of all of us, but then I realized it will probably cost us 100,000, euros.
Someone: You've been in this game for like three decades now, and you're still, man.
Someone: And then from the entrepreneurial world from Dublin. There's Traynor set up a company, co founder of intercom, which essentially, I think makes internet business personal is how you describe it, but it has about 30,000 customers the last time I looked, and you can't build a company like this, a billion dollar company without absolutely knowing what you want.
Someone: So that's the difference between us all.
Someone: Let's try and find some commonalities a Kahn, was it something that happened in childhood that made you think I can't just succeed in the world of music, I have to be an entrepreneur, I can't just stop with the record label, I have to build a new kind of business, why do you think you grew up with that hunger to keep pushing forward.
Someone: Um, I would say probably being raised in Africa changed a lot, you know, coming from Africa. Coming into America.
Someone: The difference in culture, the difference in access is what really really drove me, and especially around the time when I came to America was in a very transformative place, you know, especially when it comes to race and and things of that nature so everything was a lot harder so everything that you did you have to do a double, double, you know, double great for the movie accepted and ultimately I came off as a hustler because the opportunities wasn't quite there for me so as an African child which were all entrepreneurs by birth, coming into the US as a hustler I think all those elements just gave me the drive to be successful in whatever it is I want it to be successful in and I think as time came on opportunity sees and I see that opportunity was available. I never hesitated to take that opportunity, because I never seen failure as an option, always felt like if things didn't work out the way you expected it to work it wasn't because you failed. It was because you didn't have enough information. So that led me to just prepare for everything that I did, and try to get as much information possible to succeed in whatever it is I was trying to do, and was there a role model early on was it a parent and uncle, who said, you can do it they can, you can go and be that person that you don't think you can be. Um, I think my parents always been like I think in most people your dad. My dad was there for me, you know, my mom was there for me. I was very fortunate to have both my mother and father because a lot of friends I came up with were raised by single parents and seeing my father as a jazz musician him being a role model and seeing that as a jazz musician jazz musicians really didn't make much money. So, I knew that there was not quite. I'm trying to understand what drove my dad to do it because there was not quite money in it and then I realized it wasn't the musician that was making the money it was the record company. And that's when I said maybe if I do get into business musically I'm gonna go into the side that actually makes the money.
Someone: But you've made it. You've got your multi Platinum albums you couldn't go much higher in the music business financially. You don't seem to have much to worry about what keeps you pushing new boundaries.
Someone: I think it's just the aspect of creating lines and walking over them, because I don't think it's I think honestly it's impossibly human for someone to say okay once I reach this goal. I'm done, because you think you're done until you reach that goal. You know, and then you want to get higher and then you meet peers as already on that level that's a step up and step up so it feeds that greed gene and you that wants to create a more bigger success rate for yourself. But I think what drives me the most is always been spiritual because my grandfather was also one of the most important people in my life on a spiritual level and he was always telling me, son. Life is like a hotel room. You were just passing through.
Someone: And what he meant by that was that this life has always been a test for us. And ultimately, no matter how much you think you might accomplish if you didn't accomplish anything that God can look upon you and smile about then you haven't accomplished anything. And I think it was that factor that gave me the more philanthropy, you know, vision to want to do more and more and then I realized the more I did travel, I started to recognize people that look and feel like me and and went through the same struggles I went through and I just wanted to see that change and I realized, no matter how successful I got the one thing that never changed, was the pain that I always want to delete from seeing others go through what I felt like I went through as a child.
Someone: Do you recognize this there's there's an entrepreneur in the tech world a very different world. But it's not about the money. It's about pushing forward and trying to solve more and more problems. Yeah, there's definitely like this progression of the possible. I think you want to do something that seems impossible and then that's possible. And then the buzz is the next, the next impossibility. And I think that's, like, it seemed impossible to say start a company or then you know move to San Francisco raise some venture capital raised a million raise 50 million raise 100 million dollars. They're all impossible things that you're never going to do and then you do Tim, and you're like what's next. It's something that's like fueled, I think a lot of us, it's just this idea of like whenever somebody tells me I can't do something. I'm a brilliant now Now I know I'm definitely gonna do it. Where did you get that resilience.
Someone: I probably, it was probably like to my childhood like my my mom was a single mother raising a family of seven, and she like she was always just kind of showing me how things like were like, it was hard to be like good, you know, good hearted things are worth fighting for. And, and it was kind of whenever I faced any challenge in business it's the same sort of resilience and how to be like when someone says, this is a really hard thing to pull off I'm like brilliant, that means no one else is going to do it. You know, that's like, that's always been my attitude. Absolutely. So you've got the work ethic, you've got the focus on the target is the difference between failing, and succeeding. The amount of energy you throw in the amount of hours you work. I, for me, I think you can't ignore a little bit Look, that's like for me success is a function of like the time you put in the effort you put in in your time, your actual ability and how much you've like improved yourself. And look, and I you know I never sit on the stage here and say like that like it all. You know, it was all me or it was all hard graft like you need a few breaks to go your way or at the very least you need not bad luck, you know like I could have got hit by a car eight years ago that would have stopped would have screwed things up, right. So, I think look is definitely a factor they have to acknowledge, but outside of that, I think, you know, honestly the arrows, the graft, the like the 4am conference calls whatever it takes, you know we're it's like, you know, hundreds of arrows in the gym or millions of arrows in the studio or like most probably 10 million photographs, I don't know. And, like, it's all like, if you're not willing to do it out, you're like you're definitely not going to succeed. I really believe that you have to actually put the arrows in how many hours a week do you think you work these days I've gotten better. But I would say unapologetically in the early days, somewhere between 80 and 100 on a bad week. You're breaching European Union rules I am Bradley so Paige, you train every day you've been training a couple times a day, even whilst you've been here at the web summit. How much do you think your success comes down to spending the time getting better getting fitter, making sure your reactions are faster. Why, I mean no words have been sure success is where preparation meets opportunity. The opportunity has to present itself, but it doesn't matter if you're not prepared and life can only give you so many it's true luck has to be in play, you have to have the opportunities come up but you'll never capitalize on them. If you're not prepared and knowing I don't know when my next fight would be I don't have anything lined up I don't have the next opponent yet, but I have to continue to train and be prepared for what I do know, I have the confidence I've been training all the way up until this point and I'm prepared to go and fight somebody, but you're in a slightly different world to this, and a Kahn, and also Rankin in that. There's a time limit, you can't stay top ranked fighter as you get beyond a certain age just because the body can't take the blues. So, having been completely obsessed about getting the top of the game. How do you then prepare for the next chapter, 100% and that's something that I've had to focus on I was very fortunate that I turned professional, when I was 18 years old so my professional career as an fighter took off and I was 18. It is a career that can end it absolutely any moment and it's the same for any professional athlete Of course I'm in a very high contact sport. So, you can only take so many punches to the head before you start you know hurting your body. So I've done things like you know speaking at the web summit building my platform so I become so much more than just a professional fighter where fighting is no longer my purpose, it's just a piece of what I do, it's my platform to show off who I am as a person and I can share my story through fighting. People are resonating with me right now because I am a professional fighter and I'm standing out but soon it'll change to where people know who I am and I'm a brand all on my own the way, all these amazing people have done they've been able to create opportunity outside of just what they're naturally talented in, there's other things that you can work on to better yourself. And how does this obsessiveness in your nature, translate to building the brand of Paige on social media on TV. It's extremely important social media that's something that I've spoken about a few times here at web summit it's it's a big aspect of anybody who wants to be professional outside of just being an athlete, and it transcends over any company you know I'm trying to be not only just a fresh new athlete it's about being a brand and entity that stands alone outside of just athleticism. And I love that social media has given me this platform where I can share who I am, I can share the background my purpose my plan and and who I am and that's where I create such a large fan base is just through the social media.
Someone: So everybody in the room has a device that makes them an amazing photographer. You became an amazing photographer, a while before that you were one of the few people who is known, like a Kahn, like Madonna, just by one name. Yeah, to you basically all my competition. All right. Everyone's competition now for me.
Someone: I think the thing is is that the camera in your pocket, is, is just a tool, you know like what you do with it is what's really important and, and also what the things that you can do really quickly with the thing that's in your pocket. It took people like me years and years and years to get to a point where we created these visual aesthetics, that you can press a button and you can use them. So, I think, in a way, photography is dead and captures or captures alive. The capture is what it's about, but for me.
Someone: The reason I want to come to places like this is because I think that we can't let go of what the craft of photography or the craft of creativity is and that's what I'm obsessed with I'm obsessed with being able to communicate with people and being able to tell stories and be able to engage with people and and the main point for me is that I'll use whatever is out there, whether it's a social media platform, whether it's an event like this. I just want to communicate my ideas and get them across to people, whatever way I can.
Someone: I'm interested in how you found photography, I mean you started out I think studying accounting right yeah Polly. How did you find your muse. Well I was lucky I was in Holger residents with lots of art students and they were doing eight hour weeks and I was doing 50 hour weeks, and I thought there's something wrong here. Like I'm not enjoying it and they're loving every minute of it. And I went home and I borrowed a camera and I literally picked up the camera and looked through the lens, and click the shutter. And that was it. It was like, I'd found my calling and I think actually probably what is the similarity between swords, we found the thing we love. And when you find the thing that you love. It's never work. It's your passion, so I don't ever pick up a camera saying, oh no not another day's work I think this this is what gives me a buzz. This is what makes me excited to be able to have someone in front of me or have a subject and be able to try and catch something about them, a capture an idea, create a story that maybe nobody's ever seen or heard or read before. And I guess there's always new stories that need, telling you've moved from fashion and music stars to now you're working with extinction rebellion. Yeah.
Someone: Well, it's always been important for me to have a social purpose to what I do because I used to get paid like crazy amounts of money for doing what I loved and I just thought the balance wasn't really fair, but also just, you know, if you're going to have this. If you're going to have this ability to be able to tell stories, then you really should be trying to use them in an effective way can't just always be about selling something. So my idea was always to sell something that maybe help change the world, made it a better place and I think especially these days, when the world is completely flipped it's completely different. We're not looking at the world through the lens of today we're looking at the world through the lens of yesterday, and we need to start realizing that the things in our pockets attacking us they know what we want to buy they know who whoever relationships with, and we need to work out how to make those things work for us, and not allow the makers of them to use us to work for them.
Someone: There is an argument that this obsession on getting better and better at what you're doing is not entirely healthy, it's not giving you time to smell the flowers to hang out with your children.
Someone: I mean, to what extent is there truth in this argument that you're living an unbalanced life that isn't necessarily great for you, long term.
Someone: Well, what I would say to that. I mean, to an extent, it all depends on how you're moving, you know if you're moving and you're not taking health into account. You're not physically working out or doing some physical for your body to stay, you know, movable sore and things of that nature not eating properly, it could be very unhealthy, but clearly you have to keep all that into account because you have to treat your body with Karen you have to healthfully move a certain kind of way but more than anything when you're following your passion, you're extremely happy doing it. Yeah, and everyone knows that happiness is the best cure for any sickness, any sickness happiness, most of the time is curing an organ work and extend the life of any living human being so when you have the combination of good health, proper management in your time and scheduling your work with your passion and also with family, then I think there's a good, there's a good way to kind of balance everything out you know because I don't think you can have one without having the other. So it comes down to, time management. Yeah, management, definitely. Yeah, especially when everyone's on you know we're all on all the time now, and it's like stop wasting your time scrolling, looking at stuff it's not always research, it's just sometimes wasting time. So, managing your time I'm into Joe mo which is a joy of missing out fear of missing out is something we shouldn't we shouldn't be doing it's like it's not healthy for us so I think it is about time management is about making sure that you give yourself time just to be bored. If you're creative, you have to be bored. If you're not bored. You are not creative, and also, and this is a really important thing. Stop stealing people's ideas from the internet. Sorry guys, they're not your ideas and someone else's ideas, finding yourself is important. And that means spending proper relationship time with family or your body, or whatever it is. So let's leave people with some concrete takeaways there's lots of people in the room who are building businesses that are growing. They are forging creative careers, but haven't yet reached the pinnacle given some guidance, they're obsessed to, is it simply having a better time management app, is it simply not looking at other people's ideas. Don't be scared of failure. That's the main thing you can't be scared of putting yourself out there because you're going to mess up there's no question.
Someone: One month. Okay, me personally I don't believe in failure. I don't think failure exists. If it didn't happen the way you predicted it. That just means you didn't have enough information. So prepare yourself for what you're trying to accomplish and where you're trying to go and don't look at something because you made an agenda to say I want to be at this level by this particular time put in all the work you possibly can, but also keep in mind that if it doesn't happen that that particular time is not because you couldn't achieve it if you work the hardest you possibly could. Sometime which is simple as it wasn't meant to be at that specific time, so also leave a little bit of room for the spirituality to play a role in what you're doing. In today's life because I think sometimes we do things without taking spirituality into account sometime things is going to happen when God wants it to happen to you. Not when you want it to happen all you can do is work as hard as you can, towards it and pray that it all comes together but you got to put the work in. And I think you also you have to find your passion and like you were saying all of us up here, found what we were extremely passionate about it's no longer work for us. Yes, we work very, very hard and it is not easy, but it's easy in a sense that we're doing something that we love and and in that you have to have a product that people want to endorse they want to be a part of and if you're passionate about it then people are going to resonate with it because they can see your energy that you put behind what you're selling, and it is something that we've all become good at because we just genuinely love what we do. Absolutely.
Someone: I think that's totally correct, I would say once you find your passion. Belief is the first step, like believe that you can actually achieve. And then, hard work is the next step. And if you get those two things right. Rarely goes to wrong. I agree.
Someone: Well, I didn't think we could say much more so, photography doesn't exist. Failure doesn't exist, but hard work, discovering your passion, and the productivity app for scheduling is the route to obsessive success please can we thank Rankin. A Kahn dares and Paige.
Someone: In January, Amazon to overtook Microsoft to become the most valuable public company in the whole world. As the company continues to scale to unprecedented heights will its mission to continuously innovate, get tougher. Our next guest is at the forefront of innovation in the powerhouse. That is, Amazon, and arguably one of the most influential CTOs in the world. Here to talk about Amazon AWS, and how machine learning is fundamentally changing the world around us, please put your hands together for the Chief Technology Officer of Amazon dr Verner Vogels.
Someone: Good afternoon Lisbon.
Someone: How you doing for the last session. Thank you all for coming out. still to listen to this. So with all the talk about AI and machine learning, and topics like that, I thought it would be good to talk to you about what Amazon has been doing for the past 20 years with artificial intelligence, and most importantly, machine learning.
Someone: Now if I think about.
Someone: Think about Amazon.
Someone: I'm not thinking about Amazon as a retailer. I think about Amazon as a technology company. If you look at all the things that we've innovated over past. For the past 20 years, all of them has been driven by technology advances and machine learning, patient increasingly important evolving that you have to remember that Amazon is is founded by computer scientists. Evan Jeff for the about sort of starting Amazon. He didn't want to start a bookshop. He was fascinated by what the internet could do that you could not do anywhere else. And you just pick books that are really good bookshop has about 40,000 titles the StockX yet there's millions of books out there. So you could build a bookshop on the internet that holds all the books of the world in it.
Someone: And I think he's come pretty close to it. But remember in 94 the word ecommerce didn't exist that none of the software that you can be able to buy in packages today, didn't exist.
Someone: Nobody don't recommendations before or similarities or reviews or cell service ordering all the things that you now consider to be normal in any ecommerce operation has been pioneered by Amazon over the years, and a crucial part of that has been actually a Yang, or what I would like to call one shift set of AI, machine learning.
Someone: Increasingly using data to make data driven decisions, using very large data sets, for which individual humans can no longer have an industry understanding, and you really need to make use of advanced algorithms and training to build models based on the data that you have.
Someone: And it's not that at an Amazon we've been doing AI for the sake of AI know we've really paired our scientists, with our builders to make sure that the kinds of things that we are delivering a machine learning and AI are actually useful for our customers. We're trying to solve. Customers problems using these technologies.
Someone: So if you look over the years, we've delivered so much innovation in element AI that we've become one of the powerhouses of machine learning.
Someone: And many of the things from the outside world like the really big innovations like the Amazon go store or Alexa are obvious things that you see are driven by machine learning.
Someone: But there's done so many things under the covers at the back end of Amazon data also all driven by machine learning. And in essence we have basically thousands of employees working on these technologies for the past 20 years.
Someone: Many of these things, you know, you know, you know about similarities you know about the recommendations, you know about sacrificial search, but there's so many other things in the backend, for example, abusive review detection, or counterfeit good detection or fourth prevention. All of those are driven by machine learning.
Someone: And if any large part of that is really in the background of our operations, how to deliver goods and packages to our customers that in, in essence, we literally deliver billions of packages, a year in more than 185 countries. And that's pretty challenging because especially if you want to give hard guarantees about the ability to deliver goods in a certain timeframe.
Someone: So there's four different parts to all of that, all of them actually which are driven by machine learning. First Year forecasting. Basically, which products you buy.
Someone: And how many of them to buy their you get the buying part, where do you source from, what are the best sourcing in relation to the location where you will discuss that. So the placement in which of the many fulfillment centers that we have around the world. Do you place these goods such that you can actually make promises to your customers on one or two day deliveries. So all of those are driven by technologies, based on machine learning.
Someone: So let's take a take a few examples. Yet forecasting is easy, offerings that are searched repeat buys that people buy continuously. So detergent Sakkers garbage bags. They're easy to forecast, and even things that are seasonal like warm socks or sunscreen. Those are easy to forecast. Fintonic comes much harder. If you look at more unique items. Yeah. And it can be driven for example by price elasticity. If the price of certain televisions, start to drop. You may see a rise of interesting customers in buying those televisions, or you know of products haven't saved at all, or only infrequently get sold. Yeah. Because tasting lip balm is not that terribly popular.
Someone: Or, if you look at sort of the seasonal or regional demands that they may be very different things in Florida, and not necessarily very popular in Alaska.
Someone: And then you have sort of the idea about new products, you have other the demand for products that you've never sold before or seasonal demands. If the last episode of Game of Thrones, would it be just before Halloween, you will see an enormous rising interest in Halloween entertainment for Halloween costumes.
Someone: So much of this has been driven in the past by incremental advances in machine learning, until we got to the point that we could really start to deploy deep learning scale. And we saw a massive increase in accuracy. And what does that mean it means that you can give better guarantees to your customers about exactly when and where you can deliver your goods.
Someone: So, especially around things that are really really hard to forecast new networks really help you, a sort of making trying to make decent forecasts. Yeah, this is a great example. The Nicholas Cage magically first of all sequin Timo cover might not necessarily be the most popular item in the world.
Someone: However, how do you forecast that, but as an individual item you can do this. However, your algorithms can look at thousands of items that are remarkably similar to this product, and then still make decent forecast says that if so many Las Vegas will order this product, we can still promise it to deliver in two days.
Someone: So we made basically billions of dollars of investment in a fulfillment network to make sure that we can deliver goods to customers with a real heart promise, and especially recently when we've moved from two days to one day deliver the promise of that fighting one day delivery with plan that really has delighted, our customers.
Someone: And really speeding a prime is a is an important item for us because customers really enjoy either getting things in half an hour or an hour, or in the original prime, two days, and I one day.
Someone: But the commission is can be can be speeding up even more.
Someone: Yeah, we've been experimenting and developing a drone system that actually helped our customers deliver goods within 30 minutes. Within 15 miles of a, of a fulfillment center. And, you know, with packages, up to five pounds.
Someone: When he developed a drone system. It was incredibly important and crucially important for us that these drones are safe. Safety is the most important part of the development of our drone system.
Someone: So for that, you actually need to have use multiple sensors, to be able to really detect everything in the environment. So different sensors no one sensor by themselves are good enough to actually sense the environment.
Someone: Unfortunate example sonar are not really good in detecting fluffy dogs.
Someone: So you may have a different set of sensors. And when it is a diversity of all of the sensors, allow you to actually build a system in which the drone can sense and avoid any obstacles.
Someone: So, both in terms of static objects and moving objects, these drones need to be able to detect them and avoid them.
Someone: So you can use for example Steele Cristina Scott pick vision to detect cranes, or chimneys and things like that.
Someone: But you need to have a whole set of other centers. If you think about moving objects and deep learning plays an increasingly important role in all of that.
Someone: For example, moving objects in the sky is something that these drones need to avoid at all costs. So let's take a look at, at an example there somewhere on the horizon is an object that is flying, they can see it.
Someone: No, very certain vision objects vision algorithms, were able to detect that there was a paraglider in the distance, and as such the drone meeting needs to avoid that.
Someone: When the drone goes from vertical from horizontal flight at vertical descent mode. You need to be able to make sure that the area below the drone is free of any objects. We use again, a diversity of sensors to make sure together with the planning to make sure that we understand exactly which objects are in the delivery zone.
Someone: So take an example here we can see the different types of centers, and really when they area turns red. There's an object inside the center in this case a human, that you definitely need to hold the descent of the drone to make sure that you can only deliver when it's absolutely safe.
Someone: And the same goes about and this is a really hard problem. Yeah, wires are not easily detected. And definitely if you look at these imagery, with our eyes, we can see this. So we built very sophisticated and vision algorithms to detect to use the unique physical attributes of wires, to be able to detect them. Again, this is a great example of him you see that the drone is descending and realizes that there is a washing line out there, and essentially hold it he sent crucial in all of this is safety. That's the first and most goal that we have in building a drunk systems.
Someone: This is another realm that be used to delight our customers with Craig delivery. This is Scout, and it will actually deliver packages over the sidewalk to you, but again here scout needs to avoid any objects like trash cans or lawn chairs or a leaf blower or whenever you've left laying around. And again safety here is crucial, making use of multiple sensors to avoid these objects appallingly you've heard about the ghost stories that we've been building. And again, they're sophisticated fishing algorithms are the driver behind sort of being able to build these stores. And not only detecting, sort of, which account or which customer is moving through the story, and that will be easy if there's only one customer. But if there's literally hundreds of customers in the store. These things are becoming incredibly hard to do machine learning, efficient algorithms help us drift up or also with respect to the customers, but also with the product. Though some products are the same, but look remarkably different, or they're not the same with our packaged almost identical. So how can you make sure that your fishing algorithms can actually detect these. And again, it's all driven by machine learning and artificial intelligence.
Someone: If you listen to well heat story yesterday, you've heard about Mitchell at Alexa, which is of course a big driver, big largely driven by as well. And really, sort of, trying to emulate the computer in Star Trek was the initial motivator for us to build Elixxir.
Someone: But again, behind the scenes. This is all driven by advances in machine learning and artificial intelligence and whether that is that your language understanding or text to speech. All of these are driven by machine learning, and if that we've been able to delight customers. If it's YT of different tasks. Yep. Joon today you'll see that users will continue to use.
Someone: Alexa, but for very different purposes.
Someone: And if you listen to the heat StockX yesterday, you've seen that all these different new learning algorithms, actually are continuously driving improvement in in Elixxir.
Someone: Now, what I want you to remember is, two years ago, I was on stage here, and first started talking about Alexa and what is behind it. Most importantly is that the echoes are just one version of Alexa, Alexa is integrated literally into hundreds of other devices from fridges to two Sonos devices. All of them have Alex integrated into it. By using the Elixxir Forbes surface. So if you look at these what is actually happening behind the scenes. They Alex our place from SAP country music. That means after detecting the wake word goes through adamant speech recognition, then go to to natural language understanding, then figures out which skills to execute. And then text to speech actually allows you to give them a response back to your customers, important is that each and every one of you can integrate the Alexa voice service into any of your applications. Whether you build the hardware or software, you can have Alexa integrated into any of your apps
Someone: with very long history at Amazon, with respect to machine learning, and especially also when it comes to development. So our task, and our go at AWS cloud computing division of Amazon is to get machine learning in the hands of everyone, not just data scientists.
Someone: Yeah. And if I look at. We literally have hundreds of thousands of customers already running on AWS using machine learning, and I just picked one of them this is an interesting one at Duke they developed the mechanism for early detection of autism, by making use of our fishing algorithms.
Someone: So this is the traditional stack, you know, originally data scientists were the ones that actually were doing, machine learning. And I consider that to be sort of the assembly level programming of of data science. The majority of Fink of the algorithms that we've seen over time is that engineers need to be able to pick an algorithm, not necessarily developed on 95% of all machine learning can be done by picking an algorithm, instead of developing them.
Someone: But it's been way too hard to do this. So we built a system for you called sales maker, that actually means one click of a button. You can actually push through everything from these to determining which algorithms you want to use, how to train and how to deploy it really taking away all the heavy lifting. That is irrelevant, machine learning.
Someone: Many of these algorithms are built for what we call internet scale. Because if you have a trillion dollar trillion item data set. You want to train on that you want to add some more data, you don't want to retrain the whole dataset. You want to be able to add to it so the streaming algorithms, perform really well in that sense. And then there is the category of defense developers that just want to make use of a previous model, whether it is revision algorithm or text processing or speech processing, all of those these created pre built models for each and every one to use.
Someone: And I think it's never been easier to learn and to get started with machine learning, right now.
Someone: So we've actually doing quite a bit of fun things around that for you won't have to use the AWS machine learning University, which is basically everyone the ability to get the same training that the Amazon engineers has had internally, and also build some Finn hardware for you to experiment with computer vision, as well as with sort of reinforcement learning. If you want to stop me if anonymous Karthic Bala Nauto of that. ml databases where to go. And I suggest. Why did you go built right now. Thank you.
Someone: Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's center stage content, but please stay with us for the pitch semi final restarts in just a few moments.
Someone: Please welcome to the stage, co host of rise Casey Lau, and co host Alf collision Sunil Sharma.
Someone: Hello everyone and welcome to center stage for the web summit pitch semi final powered by Siemens. My name is Casey Lau and I'm the co host of rise. And my name is Sunil Sharma, I'm the co host of collision and the MD for TechStars Trotta we're going to be your co host for pitch today in just a few minutes, the first of 16 semi finalists will begin to pitch right here on center stage to get here. Eight of our semi finalists battle it out through the group rounds and quarterfinals across our three pitch stages yesterday. Now out of 135 of web summit most promising startups, eight redeem the best. These along with eight other pre selected semi finalists will pitch right here, right now. So, only three startups, will get through to pitch at tomorrow's final, and the pitch champion here at web summit. It's going to take place tomorrow at exactly 12:30pm right here on center stage to determine the best finalists, we needed a stellar batch of judges and lots of them, and that's exactly who we have over here we have a panel of 20 incredible judges who are going to be scoring each startup out of 10. They'll take into consideration things such as the startups product potential to disrupt their competitive advantage. Their team, their financials, and the overall quality of the pitch, and for the semi final there will be no q&a. So startups will only have three minutes to really impress and convince our panel that they deserve to be one of the three coveted spots in tomorrow's pitch Grand Final. But that's enough for months. Let's hear from our first startup. Our first arm is called East nine So please welcome to the stage cats.
Someone: Thank you. So, I'm just going to start things off by asking you all a very quick question. How many of you would like to exercise more, put your hands in the air.
Someone: Okay, excellent. This makes my first slide a nice easy one. So, 78% of us would like to exercise more, probably about the number of you who put your hand up. Only 39% actually do an insufficient levels of physical inactivity, a highest in high income countries. The gym industry works for the gym industry, but it doesn't work for those who use it. And it also feels like the raft of fitness apps on the market are doing little more than superficially addressing this issue of inactivity. This is where East nine comes in.
Someone: So we are focused on connecting with our community, in a way that enables us to truly understand how we can help them make fitness, a habit. We have a clubhouse, not an office, and we hold regular meetups, that enable us to get to know our audience, and enable us
Someone: and enable us to allow them to get to know our coaches. By doing this, we're really understanding how we can close the gap on the experience of having a coach, and the exclusive ness that prevents the majority of us from ever really accessing it.
Someone: Our coaches that obviously paramount to this. And as you can see, we have a vast variety, all coming from different walks of life. I've personally hand picked them using my expertise as a former GB athlete to make sure that we work with people who are not only the best coaches that they can be, but also have an interesting story. That means they can understand you and how you can achieve optimal fitness better. So whether it's training the military, whether it's helping people on a journey back from life threatening illness or whether it's chasing the dream of competing in the Tokyo Olympics, or coaches really get it. They also get how to deliver it in audio, and how to make it really simple. Simplicity is the final thing that we really pull through into our product. Download the app answer some questions about your goals and find the session. That's it. You press star and off you go. We've also recently removed the need for you to have to take your phone with you if you're going out for a run by being the first fitness app to launch a standalone Apple Watch app. But this is all just the start. So far, we have over 17,000 members within our community and the seeing schools across PMF well above the 40% benchmark, they're telling us that they'd be very disappointed if they could no longer use us. We have incredible support from our VCs local blue and cherry ventures. And we also have a brilliant number of angels, such as Sophia Benz and Nicholas Enstrom who are helping us on our journey. But it's just the start.
Someone: The gym industry is a $100 billion industry. And we're on a path to creating a better, more accessible, less intimidating solution that puts the member first and drives real results. So my final ask is for you to do two things, download these nine from the iOS app store, and join Vince on his six minute stretching session. Thank you.
Someone: Well done Catriona strong starts. Our next company, all the way from Switzerland is a company called embers. So let's welcome all of her to the stage.
Someone: Good evening web summit. My name is Oliver, and I'm the CEO and co founder of members, and we exist to solve one problem that is to make it simpler for companies to integrate with the wider payment ecosystem. Those who know and deal with large companies either as having worked for those companies within the IT organization or try to sell a service to the company that needed to integrate in the core IT system will know what a pain that is and how expensive that can be, and it has nothing to do with your solution. Within large corporate Steve generally have two major topics that are driven customer engagement topics and business efficiency topics. And when you look at payments. It is pervasive through both those everything from collecting premiums paying out claims paying salaries asset management tools Treasury tools accounts payable. All of those are payment topics for large companies, and has to be dealt with with different providers, it's really expensive to maintain and integrate them. And the problem. Are these gray arrows that you see here, the more integrations that are the worse it is for large companies to give you a feeling of what this looks like one of our clients try to move away from paying checks in the UK, just doing bank transfers and backs. Turns out it's not that easy it's not one integration, because those 500,000 checks are produced by seven different IT systems. Two are so old, they cannot take backs mapping and all the others take 11 months, one after the other to upgrade 55 months, two and a half million pounds, and they've reduced the checks issued by 40%. Along comes in birth, the most comprehensive cloud based ecosystem of payment rewards and bank partners, and we make this accessible through a service. Looking at our example just now we were able to upgrade all seven IT systems in three months, not only two backs but foster payments and all other payout methods, now and forever. One service to access all payment technologies in the world, and one single reporting file for CF CFO, that means efficiency and control of your business drive savings for CTOs and much more comfortable life less it, headaches, and for cmo new products and better customer engagement, we are alive. We have clients, we have revenue, we are growing out of the insurance industry now into banking. And the best part is our platform is sector agnostic. It doesn't matter whether it's a retail company, a railway company airlines, who we are growing into now wants to access this platform. It's available right now and we are growing very fast.
Someone: We really drive the topic of reducing costs, increasing efficiencies and modernizing IT systems and customer engagement with the large corporates. In the end we are also good for payments, we are good for companies, which means we are good for customers. Thank you for listening.
Someone: Before I introduce the next startup, I just want to remind you all how the judges will be scoring the pitches. Each judge will be allocating the startups with a score for product potential to disrupt competitive advantage financials team and of course the quality of pitch. All right, so let's welcome startup number three, don't build games and presenting on stages Jefferson.
Someone: Hi everyone, it's a pleasure to be here today from Toby games company that focuses on the power of voice and conversations to create a new type of entertainment that we haven't quite seen yet.
Someone: We believe the voice is the new touch and the same way you know touch interfaces changed the world 10 years ago we believe voice interface are about to do the same. Our voice our emotional natural personal, and so is gaming. So we in our in our heads and made a lot of sense to put the two together, which we believe in the fast and accessible nature of voice, games, and we see their power to like spike imagination, and also to great powerful engagement with just a tone of an emotion or the lack of it, I guess. Excuse me. Oh, yeah. So, to help me with that presentation I brought like one of the characters from our first game the vortex which we launched a year ago for Alex and Google systems. Criteria I believe show my presentation.
Someone: Welcome to web summit voice authorization required. Can you please state your name, Jeff.
Someone: I would say pleased to see you, Jeff, but we have no time for pleasantries, we have a presentation to do. Do not be alarmed by the 10s of thousands of people watching this, there is a 33% chance you will not screw this up. However, we have one problem to solve, before we can continue my sensors have detected and escalated heart rate is the crowd causing you to feel afraid.
Someone: I told you not to be alarmed literally 5.48 seconds ago. How can I help if you don't listen to me. I'm sorry.
Someone: You will be, if you screw this up. And don't worry about disappointing this crowd, they are only a small fraction of the billion plus people who could be playing our games today. After all, we brought the best people aboard to build a conversational gaming environment with a supportive me, the Almighty AI that is embedded in all voice driven apparatus.
Someone: This is the next big step in entertainment accessible to everyone. We're creating compelling narratives and world's spoken worlds. I couldn't have said it better myself.
Someone: By the way, Jeff, why are you not at work making things, because I'm here presenting.
Someone: And why did you come here. King to meet the people.
Someone: You don't need to meet people. I can tell you all you need to know about people, for example, do you know the most popular favorite color in this room.
Someone: Blue.
Someone: Correct. The color of sadness of skies of vast oceans that will never be reversed. Because you need to be in the office making games already said I'm going to the office now.
Someone: Good. You are welcome to call on me again next time you are not making games and going.
Someone: Goodbye, Chef.
Someone: So, Thanks, like, like I mentioned like where do we make toys games. Feel free to check out our next game that our latest game that came out a month ago the 3% challenge, which we made in partnership with Netflix. Thank you.
Someone: Very well done Jefferson. Alright, startup number four is called tag space, or they're going to do, we'll find out right now we're going to welcome Paul to the stage.
Someone: Hello everyone, lovely to be here. I'm going to start by talking about maps. That's right, maps, amazing things right, get you from A to B, let you find some new places along the way. maps are awesome. Except when they're not.
Someone: Can you think about any of the times when even the mighty Google Maps hasn't helped you. Perhaps it was that time you were at a music festival, he possibly had more than one or two drinks, and you're busting for the washroom.
Someone: And then you're trying to find the closest exit to get out there in a hurry and you're stuck in a huge crowd. Right. Those are experienced killers.
Someone: But now picture this instead using the magic and the power of augmented reality. You hold up your phone, look through it like a magic window and find everywhere where you need to get to, even with live information such as queuing times right in front of your eyes.
Someone: This is the experience being offered to over hundreds of thousands of NGOs this year thanks to their new friends, tax base.
Someone: I'm Paul Martin tax base the CEO and Founder and our b2b platform allows companies to make experiences just like this in less than one hour, and not a single line of code is required. Here's how it works.
Someone: content creators login to the platform, they drag and drop pins onto the map for each key location around their event site for each pin, they upload images, videos, even 3d animated content.
Someone: Once they done they received the publishing URL which they can use to trivially integrate into any existing app, or they can just publish straight to any social media channel for distribution and users gain access via our app plugin which is called discover the integration interact using the augmented camera view, and they can capture and share their favorite moments straight to social media,
Someone: our business model is predominately SAS, but with a twist. We charge Commission on any of the in app placements that are made in the AR view. We're selling virtual real estate people.
Someone: And of course tax base isn't just for big events. We've also got to market pairing city and retail experiences. And then from there, we branch out to smart cities and corporate events. And on that, I'd be a shocking CEO if I didn't take this opportunity to point out the tech space is already in your pockets. That's right. Web summit first ever AR navigational experience is powered by tech space and you can find us right there in the menu, our successes to date a testament to our triple A team and we're not just technology geeks we're all serial entrepreneurs with multiple exits, including mine, a video games company that generated over 100 million dollars in revenues before my exit love to talk to you more about our significant traction since our recent launch in Europe, please come find me in the show but do me a favor. Ditch the map, and instead look for the giant tag right above my head. Thank you.
Someone: All right, that's pretty amazing so far these pitches been pretty great. So let's welcome our next semi finalists. Toby of Chronomics.
Someone: In the beginning, DNA is king governing inherited traits such as blue eyes, curly hair, and some genetic diseases.
Someone: Identical twins have identical DNA.
Someone: So why then the Kris succumb to breast cancer, whereas our identical twin Marianne did not a significant part of the answer is SAP genetics.
Someone: The science of how our genes are controlled.
Someone: Crucially epigenetic signals govern the tracks are health heads down. And by making the right choices, we can avoid a train wreck.
Someone: Our team studied the epigenetics of aging at the University of Cambridge, specifically looking at how lifestyle and environmental factors influence the aging process itself, and our risk of chronic illness.
Someone: Today, however, we live in a world where 70% of healthcare budgets go on preventable chronic illnesses. And even though, two thirds of us here in this room will have students suffer from a chronic illness. And even though 80% of chronic illnesses are caused by preventable lifestyle or environmental factors.
Someone: We still have no good way of quantifying the impact our life choices, and circumstances are having on our bodies as we age. So we built a solution. The world's first multi predictor repeatable and actionable epigenetics based testing platform, the ultimate tool for preventive proactive health management. And all this from a simple at home or in clinic saliva test.
Someone: We've been recognized for the impact that epigenetics will have on global health and well being.
Someone: And in under two years, we've achieved significant milestones, including the first epigenetic testing kits used in preventive healthcare settings. The first repeat customers from a DNA based test. And the first totally novel epigenetic health insights, learn from our customers and give them back to our customers.
Someone: We are currently raising our series a funding round to bring the epigenetics revolution truly into mainstream health and well being.
Someone: We are Chronomics. And we are improving human health, by making the unseen actionable. Thank you.
Someone: Toby. All right. We're going to keep it tight the next startup is Corzo and pitching for them is Menn wall.
Someone: Good evening everybody.
Someone: It's a great pleasure to me to be here today.
Someone: Every once in a while.
Someone: Every product comes along and changes everything.
Someone: Long time ago in Mesopotamia, humankind started transforming sand and glass.
Someone: And they change it forever, the effectiveness of food conservation, transportation, and harvesting.
Someone: In 50s, Italians and Germans invented the most famous plastic polymers, the most cost effective plastic polymers, paving the way to Matt plastic mass production.
Someone: Plastic was unbelievable.
Someone: Transparent resistance syllable, durable stainless to watch.
Someone: Today, we're introducing quartz plastic is over the quartz or Iraq.
Someone: And we're very proud to introduce a revolutionary solution.
Someone: Weisul stratum is a surface treatment to replace all the flexible packaging, made of plastic.
Someone: And once a solid, is our paper molding injection, like plastic injection, to replace all the rest of disposable plastic. But was it actually brought call so Goertzel Experian nature on its water mineral, and some alcohol, like beer.
Someone: And we presented it.
Someone: Quartz or adjust, adding properties of glass to the paper. Because Goertzel is glass, a sand, nothing more. And with no capital investment. Today we are able to reprint quotes on paper, and we get this kind of like packaging made off hundred percent paper so hundred percent recyclable. And in the worst case. Hundred percent compostable becoming paper again, we can replace almost each of these packaging.
Someone: And as a matter of fact, we signed last week, our first contract with a multinational company of 10 million euros for the next three years, with a very good gross margin.
Someone: Everybody knows it.
Someone: We made it a fully paper transparent and waterproof wrapping paper for for Brad.
Someone: We can also make paper with water.
Someone: And then injected like plastic to make something like this. Thanks to our team, or the best experts, coming from such Tim like Legl.
Someone: This is a perfect hundred percent paper coffee cups, that you can put in your Nespresso coffee machine and effectiveness. What about the effectiveness plastic takes 5.8 seconds to make a bottle cap a plastic bottle cap with Goertzel 5.5 seconds. So we take less time. And what about costs. When you are for for plastic when you are for quartz. So, nope one more penny to get rid of plastic. Thank you.
Someone: Alright, that's pretty amazing stuff there. So the next one we're bringing up is Veronica, and she's representing Demodesk.
Someone: Good evening web summit. I'm Veronika co founder and CEO of Demodesk.
Someone: We are building the first intelligent online meeting tool for inside sales and customer service professionals with division, to enable anyone to have a great customer conversation by using a unique approach to web conferencing.
Someone: Inside says that it says done remotely via email, phone, and web conferencing tools, rather than meeting face to face is a huge and rapidly growing field and say it's as hard. Mastering the Art of sales requires a unique combination of natural skills, years of experience and strong product expertise.
Someone: So why are the web conferencing tools that are being used today, and inside say it's still purely functional. They hardly offer anything besides plain vanilla video calling and local desktop sharing.
Someone: We change that we redefine web conferencing by using a unique approach to screen sharing existing tools record the presenters local desktop screen. We set up a virtual display instead that anyone can access by just clicking a link there no downloads required and control can instantly be shared with anyone.
Someone: By using this virtual display, we can automatically preload the right presentation content provides real time guidance on the presenter side without the customers seeing it, and have significantly more data to analyze than existing tools. For us, the video that's being shared is not just a video, we exactly know what's being shared, at which point in time.
Someone: We are building the first intelligent online meeting tool for customer facing conversations.
Someone: Today Demodesk is being used by over 100 fast growing companies, we have our customers, increase close rates automate the entire workflow from scheduling of preparation to CRM logging and scale the team. By integrating sales onboarding and coaching right into the meeting flow.
Someone: We were part of Y Combinator earlier this year, and just raised our seed john in Silicon Valley. Now we're looking for great people to join the team, and customers that want to work with us. Thank you.
Someone: Monica that was a fantastic pitch. So have we seen the winner of pitch 2019 it's possible, but we're not sure, so it could be this next company. They're called frame, and the presenting founder, his name is Ben, please welcome Ben to the stage.
Someone: Hello. How we all do it today. It's so great to be here.
Someone: So although we may not realize it, we are all right now in the middle of a news crisis, nearly seven in 10 Americans are overwhelmed by the amount of news coming at them every single day, and worse. 41% of them are actively avoiding it. Now this trend isn't only happening in the US, this is happening in the UK, the Europe, around the world, even in Japan, which is the most devout news reading country in the world. Now, let's take a step back and think about this for a second. Nearly half of the US population is not watching the unfolding of our democracy, they're not paying attention to the issues that are going to affect the future the policy the social and political issues of our time.
Someone: We need a new approach to journalism. So that's why in July of 2018, I quit my job as a journalist to found frame.
Someone: Now frame is a digital magazine. And we publish interactive immersive documentaries made for mobile phones. What we do is take the incredible tradition of narrative nonfiction that so many of us love in netflix documentaries like making a murder and podcasts like cereal and we're bringing that to mobile video where our generation spends nearly four hours a day.
Someone: Now we take this a step further and integrate interactive features throughout our stories that allow users to dive deeper into the story, exploring timelines, maps, users tell us when they get into a frame story they feel like it's this interactive museum that they want to spend time in a rare space on our phones that we actually want to be aware of space on our phone that makes us care. Think about how many of us are distracted by social media and don't feel good about it. After we use it frame is trying to change that.
Someone: Now we're seeing the frame format is working in amazing ways. The average watch time for a sample frame story is three minutes and 24 seconds. The average watch time for a video on Facebook is 17 seconds we are outperforming Facebook by 12 x. And our average session duration is more than two x of that of the average of the top 50 news publishers in the US.
Someone: Now, frame monetizes through a three part strategy, one we are subscription based membership community we believe that media needs to be membership driven and we are building that future too We are licensing out or one of a kind, CMS that every time we publish get smarter, getting new interactive features in it. And we're giving it to brands so they can make their own mobile interactive stories, and then three, we are building these stories for brands so they can tell character driven stories that help shine a light on the issues that matter to them. Now really quick. A LITTLE BIT MORE ABOUT OUR TEAM frame was launched publicly in March of 2018. We had the fortune of being accepted into snap inks yellow accelerator. This past summer receiving our first investment. And right now we're just starting to raise our seed round in order to take frame to the next level.
Someone: Please join us in creating the future of media. Thank you so, so much.
Someone: Alright. Thanks, Ben. That was great. So center stage audience have we seen the winner.
Someone: Yes. No. All right, well we're halfway through, and I don't really envy the panel of judges here but let's invite the next startup, and they are called claws, and please welcome Martin to the stage.
Someone: Hello everybody, my name is Martin and I've been overseeing customer facing organizations for the past eight years, most recently I was the Global Head of customer support that a company called pipe drive where I hired more than 100 people into customer facing roles. And the thing that I learned over this time was that how you talk to customers determines whether you succeed as a business or not. And what I also learned was that how you improve the way you talk to customers is by giving lots of systematic systematic feedback to your customer support agents. Now I'm not the only one that has figured this out. Most customer support organizations have a process that resembles code review and engineering or the editorial process in writing by which they peers go back and give feedback to each other so that they can learn now where this becomes a big problem is if you have a very large to support organization, imagine if you have 500 support agents spread across the globe. Let's say you have 10, different offices and you do millions of support interactions every month, that is the reality for many large organizations. So how would you go about starting some kind of review process. Did you do it manually right so if you don't have any tools you do it in spreadsheets, which means that large organizations are spending 10s of thousands of hours every month just to give some feedback to their customers. So therefore, we created Klaus Klaus is a SAS platform that enables you to give lots of systematic detailed feedback to your support agents and improve systematically, that is how you reduce churn. That is how you improve conversion that is how you recruit improve retention. We have dozens of specialized features we have customers that do 10s of thousands reviews, every month. Here are some of them. These are the customers that do these reviews, every single month, and they save more than 90% of the time over the manual process. Like connects to your SOS Help Desk like Zendesk or intercom and shows you your support interactions in context, a little bit more about the team. I was at pipe drive my co founder Kaiser was the product marketing director of pipe drive our CTO, was an early employee of Skype, we've raised more than 2 million euros in funding and more than half a million reviews have been done on the platform.
Someone: Now, I have 30 seconds left. So I guess I'll talk about cat food. Because, I mean, what else. So if you go to Klaus app that Klaus app.com slash web summit, then we will give you some free cut foods. Now, obviously, giving away free cat food would be idiotic I wouldn't spend 30 seconds talking about cat food what I, but now you kind of need to go to this URL and check out what it, what it's actually about. Thank you.
Someone: Good job, marketing, we respect that T shirt as well. The next pitch is number 10. The company is ever send and so please welcome presenting forever sand stone.
Someone: Hi, my name is Don. I'm the founder and CEO of evanescent Africa's fast Neo bank. I read something the other day where somebody says this is an 100 trillion dollar opportunity. And I don't know how much money that is, I don't think anybody knows, but I think its massive It's big. So, people in Africa struggle with expensive inconvenience and disconnected financial services. And what we've decided to do is to solve this problem with ever sent 66% of Africans, do not have a bank account, sending money from some countries like South Africa to Botswana costs, up to 21%. It's unbelievable but it's true.
Someone: access to insurance in Africa is 2% and access to credit is 7% yet on the continent we have half a billion mobile money users. So Arison is taking this opportunity of everybody using mobile money and saying let's provide services to our customers. The first problem we are dealing with is cross border money transfer within Africa because it's massive, but generally what we're building is a full digital bank with offline access with a marketplace where other financial service providers can sell their products like insurance.
Someone: We've got low cost, we provide microcredit, we do payments for bills electricity and things like this.
Someone: And like I said before, we are leveraging mobile money. So, this is what our product looks like money transfer their virtual debit cards, insurance, offline access very important in a continent where access to the internet is very limited.
Someone: And of course payments, like I said before, it's a massive markets. This is just thinking about the two or three countries we are in right now. Digital credits about 1.5 billion opportunity insurance money transfers huge huge market, our business model is simple we met commission from our partners, so people who sell insurance or things like that on our platform. We make foreign exchange commission from trans transfers and currency exchange, we have interchange fees and interest income when we lend, we launched seven months ago, we've moved about 700,000 US dollars as of this morning 12,000 transactions and about 50,000 downloads. That's our growth right there on the screen. And this is our team. This is our advantage, kind of, also our competitive advantage we understand this market really really well. I have massive experience building financial products on the continent, my previous startup offered us the best loans. On mobile money and Emma is amazing worked at Bridgewater, the UN and Ronaldo is a rock star developer, these are some of our partners. And yeah that's it that's Arison. Thank you very much.
Someone: All right, I'm excited for the next startup because I love cats, and I love banjos. So let's welcome the founder to the stage Kate of banjo Robinson.
Someone: Hello.
Someone: When I was growing up, my dad would write letters and leave them around the house for me to find. I loved them. So much so that as an adult, I did the same thing for my friends children.
Someone: I wrote letters from a traveling cat this time, and I signed them with a poor print and I found that children, even reluctant readers and writers started writing back to the cat.
Someone: Why well children are wired for connection and they absolutely love magic and make believed and I realized there was an opportunity to totally transform the way that we teach children to read and write to turn it into a game. And that's exactly what we're doing at banjo Robinson.
Someone: So banjo is a globe trotting cat who sends proper paper post real personalized letters and creative activities to children twice a month from really exciting places around the world like the Taj Mahal and the Great Wall of China, from Indonesia and Iceland. And then he writes to children about what he's been up to who he's met the cultures and the phenomena that he sees, and children writes a reply, they leave it onto the sofa before they go to bed and in the morning, they will have found that it's disappeared magically overnight. So a little bit like the tooth fairy some parents are enrolled.
Someone: But banjo, our platform can respond at scale to the questions that the children might have asked him and those will be reflected in the next letter that they receive. So we've taken the joy of writing to Father Christmas quality time with parent and child away from screens and we've married that with a subscription business model, which allows us to print personalized children's literature, twice a month, every month. We work with award winning children's children's authors, but instead of printing 40,000 books and sitting on that StockX with zero inventory, just in time for Philip with a positive cash conversion cycle.
Someone: We're at the nexus of three fast growth markets, and our team and advisors are world leaders and personalized print, entertainment, Ed Tech and children's IP and children love writing to banjo. So in our product trial with Mumsnet 90% of children aged five to eight wrote back to banjo of their own volition. And it's a double Baier incentive parents are just as excited, was the highest level of parental engagement that Mumsnet have ever seen on a product trial. And we're impacting the home learning environment and classrooms to and abroad in Asia, Europe and South America, banjos letters of beginning to teach children English, but banjo isn't just a character that children see on TV is their actual friend they really care about him and that's why we're not just a subscription business. We're building a global brand, a universe of banjo Robinson and friends with super exciting products for older children and development and educational merchandise TV toys and a bunch of fun stuff for children in the pipeline.
Someone: We are huge heroes of Sesame Street and its original disruptive creative Sesame Workshop and I'm really excited to announce that we've just closed a seven figure pre seed investment round with our dream lead investors, Caleb plus sesame. So we're banjo Robinson, and we are all about a mission to transform the way that all children everywhere, learn to read, write and understand their world. And we hope you'll join us. Thank you.
Someone: Nicely done Kate.
Someone: Everyone here knows it is not easy to stand up here in front of thousands of people at center stage and thousands of people online but you're all doing a great job. This trend is going to continue with our next presenter, the company is new tricks in the pitch spot number 12, please welcome, Maria.
Someone: Welcome. It's amazing to be here in this been really great in front of you. I assume that some of you think what happened to my hand, so I arrived here in Portugal a few days before because I wanted to enjoy also some surfing, and unfortunately I had the accident. And I ended up in the hospital here. And when I started to talk with the doctor about the web summit and our product. He said, You will change medicine. So today I would like to tell you how at no tricks, we will change, medicine, with the biosensors, starting with the monitoring of locals. So the glucose is just the beginning.
Someone: So, we are developing the high tech nano sensor. That is using the nanoparticles, we are placing the sensor like a sticker on the tooth. And we are detecting with gold nanoparticles. The glucose in the saliva. So this is a completely new approach to the monitoring of glucose. We are sending this information to the external up. So the patient is informed about the level of the glucose, but as I said, glucose is just the beginning is the beginning because the biosensors are just developing. And we can monitor so much more information from the saliva. We are starting with glucose, because it's one of the biggest markets. So as you know there be this is a global emergency. There are 425 million people with diabetes today, one in 11, and the number, were increased to 625 million, mostly in developing countries. That's why we also need to look for more cost efficient ways of monitoring the glucose, and also for less invasive treatments, no tricks is non invasive patient friendly and invisible. Also, as we are monitoring the information from the saliva, we get super useful information about the muse of the patients that can be useful song for the artificial pancreas. This information is unbelievable. For the algorithm. And this can also improve the treatment for the diabetes patients.
Someone: This is our team. We started as MIT boot camp with Nikki. And we also have in the team, the nano sensors, engineers, so we have everything to bring this product to the market. We are here to open the new space for wearable biosensors. Thank you.
Someone: I think that lady is the happiest lady to have broken her hand.
Someone: That's amazing.
Someone: All right. If you're like me, you love to go traveling, but if you're also like me you hate the planet. So I think this next startup will be very exciting. Let's give a round of applause for Gregory from Be right back.
Someone: Good evening, everyone. My name is Gregory Shalini I'm the co founder and CEO of Be right back. The world's first travel subscription service. And I want to start off by telling you a little story. I did a lot of traveling in my 20s and early 30s, and this is the process I went through every single time.
Someone: But if you think about travel. The only thing that I care about as a customer is going on my trip, and sharing my experiences. Yet, the reality is that it takes 10 hours to research and book a weekend break, usually spread across a number of weeks. And this research process, I've been carved into multiple billion dollar industries, with brands competing for my attention. And whilst I'm engaging with all these brands and trying to figure out where to go and where to stay.
Someone: flight prices are rising. And this is preventing people from traveling. So that's where brb come from by taking the entire purchase journey, out of the equation, and shortening it down to one simple question. When do you want to go. And our subscription model is incredibly simple.
Someone: You pay 50 pounds a month for that you get three trips per year flights and hotels included, and its destination is a surprise. And here's how it works.
Someone: You create your account, and set your travel preferences.
Someone: You choose your plan, and you create your trip in less than 60 seconds. And one month before travel, we send you a postcard to reveal your destination.
Someone: So you go away with brb and have an amazing trip. And here's the thing with an amazing experience. You want to do it again straight away. And with brb you can do just that. In less than 60 seconds. The minute you get home. So we've turned something quite painful into the most convenient and exciting lifestyle brand for travelers, which has real traction. We've already sent customers to with 50 destinations across Europe, and we are well on track to deliver 65,000 trips over the next three years, and destruction has led to press across Tim in the leading media publications in the world, and press is great. But what really matters to us is that our customers love us with 97% of them rating their experience at excellent are great. And not only do they love us. They are loyal to, with an average churn rate of 3% for customers taking two or more breaks with brb. This is something the market hasn't seen before, but we're not stopping there on the supply side we are flipping the entire model on its head. Gone are the days of hotels marketing their room through a range of distribution channels, with no guarantee on occupancy brb fields hotels, guaranteed customers traveling with us, and we have complete capacity of travel sourcing we select the destination and we select the hotel, which means we can leverage our buying power to negotiate better margins and guarantee hotels higher occupancy. And over time, we knew exactly how to drive revenue because we know exactly what to sell, and when to sell it. For example, leveraging a Facebook data to sell you a room of great, because we know you're traveling on your wedding anniversary, or concert tickets, because when you're from a Spotify playlist, but if every band is playing you there that week. And all of this is disrupting a 63 billion pound industry in the UK, one that's grown 29% since 2012. And even if you capture 1% of this market this business will generate 500 million in annual recurring revenue. So really excited because all the key leaders are pointing in the right direction, huge market, robust growth Predictable Revenue. Great tactic LTV ratio, a clue where to driving growth margin and customers lovers. And this is the team behind the business which was set up by Alex my co founder and myself, and I've personally spent 15 years accelerating businesses and eight years in the travel sector. So we'll be right back. And we the most exciting lifestyle brand for travelers. Thank you.
Someone: Well done Gregory green pitches left. The next company is called pink. And for this one we actually have two presenters coming out on stage. So please welcome the dynamic duo of Rupert, and Seth.
Someone: Well, that's a bit bigger than I thought it would be. Thank you very much for coming here and seeing us talk about pink today. Hi everyone, my name is Seth Ward, I am a serial tech entrepreneur and a couple of years ago I exited a business called scout seven. And we used a combination of something called Wisdom of Crowds together with expert human insight to help pro football clubs make smart investment decisions, specifically choosing which players to buy. Since then I've invested all my time and money tackling a bigger problem with pink, which is this time helping everyday people to make smart safe sustainable investment decisions but this time, augmented with the power of artificial intelligence.
Someone: Because everyday investors truly have a monumental problem on their hands, the odds are stacked against them, 76% of Western Millennials are financially illiterate. This means $1.4 trillion a year is invested badly or what's worse, not invested at all. Now this is going to create a colossal generational problem and it's something that we need to solve. Now we believe we've got the solution for that. We gamify and we democratize the investment process, we allow people to work as a global team to drive one single investment fund. We've got nine and a half thousand global users right now and that drives our crowd wisdom system or special source.
Someone: So those users are rewarded financially for coming into our app every day and making investment recommendations. The data provided by the crowd is then fed into our artificial intelligence, which looks at each user's historic track record and success rates in making those predictions, along with other data from the market and tells us who to trade with and who to trade against for any particular asset at any particular point in time. The third part of the decision making process is our expert analysts who bring their own human insight into play along with technical analysis and make their own recommendation, and it's only when those three distinct forms of intelligence, agree on a trade that we make a trade.
Someone: Our crowd wisdom, and a AEye approach has allowed us to return more than 9.5% in the last three months alone with focusing this on the four and a half trillion dollar millennial investment market and we're most focused on right now the 220 $1 billion spent by 28 to 45 year olds who are more entrepreneur entrepreneurial mindset. So we have a really simple business model, we take a monthly management fee from our users of naught point one 2% of assets under management. And that comes through two channels. So, it's direct to consumer through our app, but we're also partnering with challenge banks financial institutions whose customers want to make those soft smart sustainable ethical investments, a rock star team have built systems for BlackRock JP Morgan Google Yoola lever I could go on. We've got the team that we believe that can build with the business with the ultimate upside.
Someone: We've been supported by some of the world's biggest banks, and we made it here to web summit semi final so we're really proud and pumped about that. Thank you, everybody.
Someone: Thank you so we define a new category of team, investing, where our users, collaborate to make smart safe sustainable investment decisions.
Someone: What could be better than this fun, designed by the people, for the people that make ethical tech for good investments that benefits everybody globally. Thank you.
Someone: Thanks guys. Now we move on to our penultimate pitch of the semi final. Please welcome Andre from Barkin to the stage
Someone: summit. I'm at Ray, founder of barking, a subscription service Delivering Happiness to pets, with food and health combined. So you pay us.
Someone: So you pay us around 40 euro. And you receive a custom box for your dog with a specific recipe for dog, plus a dedicated vet, a dedicated doctor on our platform.
Someone: We've impacted more than 26,000 customers in Spain, Italy, and Portugal. And each month. At least 68% of our revenues come from repeated customers, our clients is strongly connected to us and our NPS of ad shows that the best in class. In the last six months, we doubled our run rate, and we have no monthly revenues above 300 K.
Someone: All this is possible with a great team. Eight nationalities top talent from companies like Google Farfetch and rocket.
Someone: And the management team, would it be for front seats multiple countries, raising fast scaling fast barking is so much more than a business. It's part of our customers lives. We've ignited local communities in 14 European cities where our customers gather to socialize every week. We make a difference by being there with our community, a personal message from your vets and a specific recipe for your doc. And now we're taking it to a whole new level.
Someone: We'll be closer to our customers, and what's closer than going to their homes will be there with a smart box connected to our app that knows exactly when your dog needs a food refill, or just the right advice.
Someone: We presenting the magic box that assures your dog's happiness, and your peace of mind. The magic box is an elegant enjoyable container for your dog. That helps you save time, plus improve your dog's health. It learns how you feed your dog predicting the exact date and time to read though. No more clicks or checkouts to tailor to your dog will arrive at your doorstep automatically using sophisticated AI, the magic box also gives you advice on your dog's diet and shares personalized tips for a healthier and happier life. And all of this is controlled by you, through our intuitive app. In a nutshell, true happiness in a box barking. Let the magic begin, let the magic begin because ecommerce is becoming super cold and transactional, we just speaking to robots at barking, we want to bring a human connection back to e commerce, out of a market we live, we didn't experience may just for you. Thank you, already go.
Someone: Hold on, Andre, so 15 have pitched, there's one left. So a warm welcome for Christophe from good bag.
Someone: Hello web summit Hello Jerry. My name is Crystal. I'm co founder and CEO of good back. 1 trillion plastic bags are used for every year for an average of only 20 minutes, climate change, and plastic pollution, a global challenges.
Someone: Imagine a world where you can change that every time you go shopping with good back, you can do exactly that. Good back is a smart use of a shopping bag that enables you to plant trees against climate change, clean plastic waste out of the ocean and receive a discount. Every time you bring your own back to the store. How does it work. Every good bag has a small NFC chip integrated in a good bag logo that connects contactless ritual your phone, you just bring your good back when you go shopping in the shop, you open up the good back app Chewse to support a project for example planting a tree or cleaning plastic waste of the ocean or receiving a discount. Now, you just hold your phone, close to the good bank logo and scan it to activate the discount coupon or to plant a tree. It's simple as that, for users, good back provides it creates a gamified experience that makes it fun and rewarding to protect environment and shows them their positive impact on the environment in real time
Someone: for retailers, good back is a brand new way to interact with the customers. We offer them a customer experiences is service that enables them to interact with Lee. That enables them to interact with you protect environment together with their customers in order to win new customers that care about the environment. Communicate corporate social responsibility in a truly interactive way, and increase customer loyalty.
Someone: Good back can be easily tailored to our customers needs within minutes. They can choose their own rewards and project that they want to support, of course our technology can also be integrated in any kind of reusable shopping back. This already convinced large companies like center is just Smith retailer or London Heathrow Airport which with over, 80. million Yoola passengers is Europe's biggest airport to become our clients.
Someone: Today, we sold over 70,000 feedbacks and signed over 1000 stores in five countries.
Someone: Thanks to these clients. We already generated over 300,000 euros in revenue, before we even launched the app, currently facing demand from some of the world's largest retailers. This is all possible because of a world class team of designers, developers and behavioral economists who all are determined on our mission to plant, 1, billion trees.
Someone: How do we make money, our business model is quite simple. We charge companies, initial setup fee and the yearly maintenance fee for using our service. On top of that, we directly sell them our backs, or just NFC chip to be integrated in any back future revenue streams will be coming from monetizing our user base through new services that are basically new, new products.
Someone: Marketing like our advertisement retargeting for example, or new services and features that we add to our service.
Someone: Thank you. And I would like to invite you to start thinking outside the back, download our app, get a good back and join us on our mission to make the world better together. Thank you.
Someone: center stage audience, huge round of applause for Christoph and for all 16 semi finalists they were amazing.
Someone: So, the judges scores are now going to be collected we have this incredible wireless scoring slideshow system and it seems to be working so we're going to get to the results fairly quickly here.
Someone: We just wanted to sort of get a bit of a reaction from some of the judges on what they thought of the company's I'll start with my, my friend Casey over there if you want to write Yo, I have Lucy Lou here who is the founder of Airwallex as a founder, Lucy. What do you think, which was the best one and why did you like them to say a name. Yeah, say Yo just tell everybody what would you think, um, I think I'm personally just very interesting medtech, because it's not something I understand so I think the two Medicare tech startups that were really really good. And I think it's something that requires a lot of expertise. In addition to you know like making it marketable could bring it to the market and there's a little barrier for other startups to disrupt that place. So yeah, those two are my favorite. Do you have any advice for them as a starting starting up and grow and expanding their business. I do think is very hard to roll out these type of products just because there's a really big learning curve for Marc, like for the general public as well as any partners that you want to work with. So, I think, putting a more in a easier to understand, like scenario, probably be the best for them to really get some good traction in the early days, right. Thank you very much, Twilio yeah so I remember one year ago and this stage you had, I gave you this mic and you had like complete laryngitis, you couldn't speak. So this is the redo this is your moment which company here, would you say was the most inspiring in terms of the presentation and most investable for you as an investor. Well, I'm not speechless anymore. Yeah, I can speak but.
Someone: Well, many of them, I really like the entrepreneurs who think, have a positive impact. So they are not trying to convert business opportunities into financial results, but rather make some positive impact and think about sustainability. So, so just one come to mind. Well I really like the last one, so we definitely would need more trees in order to make paper.
Someone: Paper packaging instead of plastic packaging. So she picked Christoph from good bag, I believe, okay. Casey. Okay. Oh, Arthur from Lenovo just pick one pick Who's your favorite one. For me, yeah so Hou quartz Oh quartz Oy, because it was so fundamental there's plastic literally in everything, and it can uses oil it consumes a lot of resource and it's causing pollution externally on all the throwaway so the waste is tremendous. To go from that to something that is, it's just so broadly applicable if the products can be used in all the scenarios that they're saying the impact. I think it's an example of doing well and doing good on massive scale, okay great so that was your favorite Star, which one do you think had the strongest presentation though. The one had the best like pitch that really was the best presentation for me, which was so surprising because it was very different than my expectation was Banjul Robinson. Yeah, right. The name is fabulous I think because it definitely catches your attention. And then, the way that they appeal to the inner kid and all of us to really use technology, not to get kids to spend more time in front of screens, but to develop lifelong reading habits I found particularly compelling. I think it's amazing that she will have the Cookie Monster on our cap table. Right.
Someone: So you know, this good lucky man here I like the vest Where do you work and, and which company, did you pick as your favorite.
Someone: I mean, I wish I could choose Chewse all of them that was an amazing, amazing series of pitches. My favorite one I think is ever sent, I just think it's such a huge market there and it just it's just a really good mission. And the second one that comes to mind is. Be right back. I wanted to take out my phone and download the app because I hate booking trips so was actually really exciting. So Everson from Africa, Yapstone right me right back drB Yeah, great. Okay. Well, this sounds really hard to Niels I think nobody there's no clear winner this year they're all over the place. So what we've done so the slideshow iPads have now registered all the judges votes, and we're ready to announce the three Victoriya startups who will take part in the pitch final tomorrow, and they are
Someone: backstage drumroll please look at them. So happy so excited to find out, look at them know that guy's excited hopefully he made it.
Someone: Okay, maybe they have the Wi Fi or it's not clear to me that maybe they tabulated all the scores I still see a few and okay great happening up here so let's give them another minute. We will remind the audience that today. The winning companies are selected entirely by these judges, but tomorrow at the pitch final, which again is at 12:30pm here on this stage, there will be a fourth judge, and that will be you. So you'll be able to go through the app and vote on the company that you believe should be actually the winner of pitch 2019 here at web summit. That'll be tomorrow at 12:30pm.
Someone: So Casey that was my time stall, I'm going to give you the mic now to tell us a little bit about what, maybe what it's like being a Canadian living in Hong Kong.
Someone: Now let's let's ask him for the judges for more information here. Well, how about yourself, what should you do like I would go with episode as well. I do have a certain bias towards sales companies, we tend to invest in them a lot. So I like Demodesk a lot as well but Arison was one of my favorites as well. Okay, great. All right, well yourself you you put your iPad away really quickly so you must have a clear winner. Not a clear winner I actually liked some of them really well. But for me Broderick, certainly very promising one because I can identify myself with the issue of booking travelers, but also the Demodesk and some other companies are really like, Okay, well well well isn't that interesting. So here are the three finalists I think they're going to come out stage. I'll start with the there is no order but I'll just start with the third on the list, which is the right back.
Someone: Be right back.
Someone: Come on out. The next, the next one is new trick new tricks and banjo Robin said banjo Robin said.
Someone: I think they're coming out.
Someone: Here they come.
Someone: All right. Oh, right. That's how you doing break your hand and.
Someone: All right, so we just want to do a quick, quick, one, one sentence one minute how do you feel right now, pretty happy about yourself. Are you happy. Yeah, we know that, let's go. I couldn't be happier it's amazing to be very, very happy people, three, only one will really be happy on a flight out of Lisbon I think so we'll find out tomorrow around lunchtime see you here on center stage.
Someone: Thank you.
Someone: Thanks Ilya.
Someone: Shalom.
Someone: Sony software lever phone.
Someone: I started as a person in the
Someone: Ro Khanna.
Someone: Yes, I can. I'm on. Okay, time.
Someone: tell me when we're recording.
Someone: Next we have JobToday job today.
Someone: Next we have JobToday.
Someone: Be right back.
Someone: Next we have JobToday.