
Sunil Sharma: From employee walkouts to Congress hearings, it's been a very turbulent year for tech. As consumers and employees demand more transparency in the companies they work for, and the companies they buy from, how do we make sure that businesses hold true to the core values that they lay out and not just pay them lip service? Here to discuss if it's now time to take stock, move slow, and fix things, please welcome the moderator Mark Scott from Politico, the CEO of Arm Simon Segars, Adaire Fox-Martin, Executive Board Member of SAP, and the President of Booking.com Gillian Tans.
Mark Scott: Good afternoon. 
Adaire Fox-Martin: Good afternoon.
Mark Scott: This is a very big stage, is it not?
Mark Scott: We have a lot to cover about company values within very short period of time. And I think, I look around the audience here in Lisbon, there's probably a lot of people in the room who are looking to become the next you, if you will, the next, you know, leader of a large multinational tech company. Gillian, I'll start with you from Booking.com's perspective. A lot of this is about as the introduction said about maintaining the values as you go quickly, sort of what are some of the lessons you've taken? I think you were number seven at Booking.com when you went from a company of seven to a company of 10s of thousands now.
Gillian Tans: 17 and a half thousand.
Mark Scott: 17 and a half thousand. So so what are some of the issues that you had to keep in mind when you to maintain those values from start to finish?
Gillian Tans: Yeah, so values have been enormously crucial for Booking going through this growth. I think if companies go through so much change, over times that the values are even more important to people working at Booking.com. What I've learned that it's very important that it stays authentic, and that people also feel that these values are authentic to the company. What I've seen change over time is that what might have worked with a small group of people might not work anymore with a large group of people. That didn't mean that the values as such have changed, but the wording might have changed slightly. Or also how you communicate. In the beginning, you can just put everybody in a room or fly everybody to Amsterdam. And you know, you speak about the values, you have examples of what people have been growing to going through to showcase these values. But at some point, that becomes more complicated and you need to think about technology. And one example is before communication was very top down, which doesn't always work with value. So then we started A workplace where you get a really bottom up communication where people are actually sharing stories with the whole company. And that's actually where you see values coming to life again.
Mark Scott: Simon, although you're you're British, you're based in California. Although it's I'm British.
Mark Scott: It's a different conversation.
Mark Scott: You're based in California, your main offices are in Cambridge. Does that resonate? The idea of trying to sort of maintain those values, figure out ways to communicate allows the employees to sort of push that messages up, not just coming from the top down?
Simon Segars: Yeah, I mean, we've had a similar experience. Once upon a time, you could get everybody in a room talk about what was going on. Partnership was a very key value to Arm when we started. Because, you know, when I joined the company, there was 16 of us in a converted turkey farm in the middle of the Cambridge countryside. There's now 6 and a half thousand people. We knew in those early days that we were going to have to work with others. We couldn't do it all ourselves. So a partnership was very much baked into what we did. And I think quite conveniently for us we were a global business really from the outset because there is no semiconductor industry really in the UK. And that's the industry that we serve. So we had offices in Japan and the US and Korea, a very early stage. And our founding CEO really drove into the company, look, you've got to understand the local culture. You've got to listen to what the people say when you turn up to a customer. Be the the person supporting the local leader and that's helped me you know, help drive our culture as we've grown up.
Mark Scott: Adaire, you mentioned backstage that though you're normally based in Germany, you most spend time on a Lufthansa plane. For SAP, that must have been true. You are in multiple jurisdictions. You're working with a variety of different nationalities. How is it how do you maintain this sort of this united structure of values when frankly someone in Japan to Simon's point is very different than say an American.
Adaire Fox-Martin: Yeah. Well, well, I guess when I think about our employees, we all come to work as a wife, in my case, as a mother, as a sister, as a daughter. So I come to work with a set of values that actually I didn't get from my company that came from, how I was reared and and what I as a person hold and hold dear to me. So in the context of our company, because of course, we're 100,000 people big and across a whole range of different jurisdictions. We accept that people come with their values. And our process to have is to have a series of how we run behaviors. And then you can assess if your personal values align with how SAP runs, and this is the company that you want to be in from both a head and a heart perspective. I had the privilege of running SAP's business in Asia. I was one of those expats that went to Singapore for two years and stayed for 17. So we stayed for a very long time. It's an extremely innovative environment, extremely exciting environment. But the cultural nuances of maintaining your culture, across the geographies, there is also something very important to consider. 
Mark Scott: So let's dig in to this little bit of Simon. Again, backstage you were talking about, roughly five years ago, you had a sort of a company, relook if that's the way to put it. Values lead from the employees. Can you just walk us through what that entailed?
Simon Segars: Yeah, I became CEO just over six years ago now and and at the time, with my management team, we went through an exercise of rethinking about our vision and mission strategy. And out of that came the need to really articulate what our core values were. And what I didn't want to do is what I think a lot of companies do where they you know, you're lucky have management team in a room and work out this tablet of stone and handed down We did kind of the opposite. Our people team, our HR team, went out into the company and ran workshops to capture what it was about the company that made it so special. And they spent a lot of time on that interviewed a lot of people, and then did some work to boil it down into three expressions that we use. So we only have three, what we call our core beliefs. And they are we not I, which really speaks to partnership and working together. it be your brilliant self, which is about no matter what your background is, you turn up and we welcome that we welcome range of opinions, and then passion for progress. So we're a tech company, we're always looking forward. We want people to bring their whole self to work, work together, work with our partners inside and outside the company to develop leading edge things. So they are our three core beliefs. We build that into our hiring practices, so we hope to attract people who really subscribe to this. We build it into all our development and feedback processes. So it really does become core to the company and viewpoint you don't have to have the management standing up on top of a, of a chair kind of lecturing to everyone about how to behave, we really try and embed it into the company.
Mark Scott: Gillian how important is it that the employees themselves feel emboldened into this process that to disseminate for you, there's not just the CEO saying you must do this, it must come from the bottom.
Gillian Tans: Yeah, it's super crucial. Because all the otherwise people also don't believe it if you have a value where it's allowed to make mistakes and to learn quickly, but if somebody makes a mistake, then somebody actually there is a consequence of doing that, then people are not going to believe that value anymore. So it's super crucial and it's often small nuances that can actually play a big role. And I think for a company like Booking calm in the beginning when we're actually scaling so super fast. It gives these boundaries also for people that are so super helpful, and I think still today Yeah. Something that we work on every day. And we which we change things. We have an example. Sometimes we are still, we have some Dutch elements still in Booking where we had a value, which you said, milking the cows every day, which was great for Dutch farmers that understood that work needs to get done every day. But in many parts of the world, people are like, what does that mean? And now it says you need to get your work done every day, right? So this the small changes, which you see going from small company to a bigger company,
Adaire Fox-Martin: I wonder if got to pick up on just the scale remark there because I think as companies, we all go through growth. We all have market dynamics that we need to respond to. And in our case, we had a pivot moment in 2010. And that was a pivot moment when we saw cloud looming on the horizon, and we knew that we had to re pivot our business in order to be able to deliver even a innovation to our customers as a cloud company. And the way that we achieve that was a combination of organic innovation, but also an acquisition strategy. And when you're growing in organically, as well as organically, the face that you present to the customer continues to evolve. And I think it's very important and kind of scaling and kind of growth, that you actually have a Northstar, that even when you're bringing on board, companies that have different policies, different procedures, even different solutions, that there is a Northstar that collectively, we can all align around for us. oros was around our customer and their outcome and making that the North Star for the company.
Simon Segars: So certainly we've seen as we've grown through acquisition as well, the most successful acquisitions we've made have been where the management team does really share our values, you know, they may articulate it completely. differently, but if they fundamentally kind of align, it always works out much better than when it doesn't. And you have to go through a whole process of replacing people and spending a lot of time on just getting people to do the work in the way that we do. It isn't so much what they do, it's how they do it, that we think is really important to guide everyone without having, you know, managers looking over their shoulder the whole time,
Mark Scott: I would be remiss to say because arm was also bought. Yeah, so I mean, on the other side of the table, how does that work with, you know, SoftBank when it comes to sort of fitting in with their values?
Simon Segars: Yeah, when we went through that process, it was clear to me that you know what? SoftBank believe in. The way that master expresses the vision is about happiness for all the information revolution and happiness were all quite well aligns with our vision around technology, enabling opportunity for a globally connected world. So these things are quite well aligned. Something really do leave us to run the company have we see fit? So there isn't any kind of cultural intermingling there anyway, but those kind of North Stars are very, very well aligned. 
Mark Scott: In the introduction, those discussion, I think, mostly focus on some of the US consumer, Forbes tech companies and how they have gone through some of their own issues. Recently. Again, not looking for comment on that. But when it comes to your own challenges when your values have been tested, get in, for example, booking.com, how have you responded? Because in the end, growing a business does involve sometimes do we put the buck before our values? And then sometimes, your investors, whoever else might want you to do that. So how do you balance out some of the commercial interests with the North Stars?
Gillian Tans: Yeah, I think if you do it well, I mean, values, it's it's your culture, and it will be very hard. If If you make decisions that do not fit your values or your culture. I have not seen that happening@booking.com because it just doesn't Work and people like I said they don't believe in it anymore. And even if you think about one of our failures, diversity, you even we even showcase it here at the Web Summit with the women in tech lounge right so important these values are that it's important to keep showcase that but it's not that we make these kind of trade offs. I don't think that that will be a good idea for companies to do because it might be benefits in the short term, but in the long term, I think it will be a big problem.
Simon Segars: So we haven't seen any kind of major issue around sort of conflict in our in our values what we do see especially as you as you grow quickly, you know people come into the company from all different backgrounds and walks of life where you do see you know, slight divergence was great and arm and it's scary at times. It's just how people call it out. We people working on are incredibly vocal when they think something isn't being Don the right way. And it's you know, it just brings everybody back to Earth, it reinforces from the ground up, you know just how important those values are.
Adaire Fox-Martin: I think at macro level, we're kind of seeing a very significant cultural change as far as corporate governance and how our success as organizations is being measured. You know, BlackRock, one of the leading investors is going to measure companies based on the impact that they have, and not just the impact for shareholders as recently as August the Business Roundtable, which represents 100 of the largest companies in the world, and indicated a change to corporate governance where it wasn't just about shareholder outcome, but also outcome for all. So I think when when you bring this context of how as businesses we may be measured, what our purpose and our value is, that it actually makes good business sense as well as a positive impact to the world that we live in, you know, to actually demonstrate your values and demonstrate your purpose in real time. And with real actions that I think Julien, you use the word authentic earlier on, which is the core of some of these programs
Mark Scott: in relation to this sort of cultural if not Wall Street shift in how we value these values. How far along are we? Because in the end, it is a fiduciary responsibility to create good value investor investors, and at the moment, it's very easy to look at quantify revenue is not that easy to quantify society.
Adaire Fox-Martin: Look, I think there is an opportunity for all of us to find a better way to grow. And if I if I think about justice to take corporate social responsibility as a program, most companies have Corporate Social Responsibility today for every $1 that we spend on corporate social responsibility programs, and We actually spend $400, just on the indirect goods and services that we need to run our business, the paper, the pens, the office supplies. Now, just put that in context for a moment because there is a movement called social enterprises. And these are companies that operate in the business world, but their outcome is based on their social mission or their environmental mission. And they actually give more than 50% of their profits back to that mission. Now, imagine that you're buying paper, right? You can buy a ream of paper, or you can buy a ream of paper that's going to help educate young women in Africa. The Euro is the same, the paper quality is the same. And as business we have a choice about where we push our indirect spend, for example. So that's an example of doing good business and makes good commercial sense. But doing good when we do good business,
Mark Scott: does that chime with sort of your interaction with the Quality companies.
Gillian Tans: Yeah, I agree completely. Because if you only focus on short term gain or shareholder value, then the risk is you lose sight of customers, employees of partners. And more and more companies need to think of their reason for being and a company like Booking Els calm already many years ago as well said, okay, you know, we have a big impact on travel. But we also need to make sure that generations to come can keep exploring the world and how do we make sure that we improve these destinations, and we actually brought technology and tourism together and we actively promote with funding and knowledge startups that are active in sustainable tourism. And we do that now for a few years very successfully. But it's very important as a company you really think through I have my mission. But how do I make sure I accomplish that in the best possible way?
Simon Segars: I think it's going to be interesting to see how As this movement develops, it's called a movement for timing. It is going to highlight companies who have CSR programs as a Bolt on because they want to feel good about it. And those who truly do operate in a way of, as you say, I can do business, but I can do business with it at the same time, and it's kind of baked into your, into your culture. For our part, you know, we're looking at how technology can address the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We've actually working with others, including SAP actually, on an organization called 2030 vision, looking at, you know, this issue of how companies come together in partnership and use their technology to address what are Let's face it, the the world's biggest issues,
Adaire Fox-Martin: you know, it also really helps with the whole concept not of employee motivation, but employee engagement, right, which I think is a level above motivation. And, and when you have engaged employees, the way that you organize and the way that you are operate internally reflects the kind of service that you deliver externally. And if I think back just to that document example, I received a completely unsolicited email from the procurement manager in SAP UK, which is where we began this particular pilot. And he helped us bring social enterprises onto our network so that we could begin to buy goods and services from them. And he sent a letter to me saying that he felt that his role had changed from chief procurement officer to Chief purpose officer, and he was someone who never really dealt with customers before in terms of his role. So I think these kind of programs again, I'll use Julian's word about authenticity. These programs really help on the whole context of employee engagement and creating that engaged workforce that ultimately deliver a better outcome for your customer.
Mark Scott: Right. We have about four minutes left I wanted to do a quick fire round With all of you, because obviously, there's lots of people in the audience, either the start of a three or growth company 100 that are looking at trying to take action in the variety things you're doing, but maybe don't have the resources that they have you have going to start with you then walk down. So forgive me, we're putting you first. But what are some concrete steps if I'm a startup founder of three, or you know, Product Manager, or 50, whatever it is that I can do within the next six to 12 months that could have meaningful change to values?
Gillian Tans: Yeah, I don't think you need a big budget, right? I mean, when we started, we didn't have a big budget of people only focusing on these kind of topics is more than you need to think through what's important for you as a company where the type of people do you want to have working in your company. And then what you want to stand for, and I think it's important to think through because everybody you bring into your company, basically defines your culture. So it's important to think at the start, okay. Do I diversity is important? How do I make sure that I already bring a diverse workforce in the beginning? Because that will help you in the long run as well. So that will be my advice.
Mark Scott: Simon?
Simon Segars: Yeah, I think thinking ahead, you know, if you are a startup have 10 people, you know, when you're 10,000 5000, whatever, you know, how do you want to be then? How do you want to build a set of Alys that can endure that that growth journey ahead? You know, what one of my team was this me start with the end in mind. So, you know, project yourself forward into the future and think about how you want to be then and how what you do today is going to help get you there.
Adaire Fox-Martin: I think I would come back to the remark I made earlier about picking your Northstar. We're 47 years old now as a company, and in the early days, when startups I think in 1972, I don't even know if that was a word in 1972. I know certainly, our founders had borrow computing power on a mainframe to code. But you know, back then if a customer called with the problem, the five founders stood up, said, Let's go, and they got on the car, all five of them piled into a car. And off they went. And metaphorically, you know that north star has stayed in our company for 47 years now $100,000 can fit in a car. But metaphorically, that is what we try to do in terms of customer outcome, to ensure that we always get in the car. So that North Star hasn't changed for 47 years.
Mark Scott: And finally, with the minute half we have left, just one thing that you wish you knew now that you didn't, during this this journey, Adaire.
Adaire Fox-Martin: Wow always a hard question.
Adaire Fox-Martin: I guess. I wish from my point of view that I would tell my younger self if I was looking back to you know, to take that leap of faith from, you know, a personal confidence perspective in terms of the roles that you're asked to step into in a growing company, and recognize that a growing company provides opportunity for growth. And sometimes you're going to have L plates on, but learn on the job.
Mark Scott: Simon?
Simon Segars: Yeah. And I think that that learning comes through diversity of experience. It comes from being humble enough to ask a lot of questions and not being shy about that. Again, I think that there's a nice part of our culture that we do, just encourage people to ask and encourage people to be very open. I was at one of our events recently, employee who's only been with us for about a month came up to me saying, Yeah, I used to work at some large other tech company. And I really liked the culture here because people are genuinely helpful. And I think that is so important. that's grown with the company.
Mark Scott: I'm going to stop you there for 10 seconds.
Gillian Tans: I think if your innovation if you're innovating at skill, make sure that values don't go to debate. crowd and make sure you have leaders that listen and make sure you you foster that as well. Your business. Yeah.
Mark Scott: Wonderful. Well thank you very much and enjoy the rest of time of Web Summit.
Someone: Thank you very much.