
It's long been argued that free trade brings prosperity and economic growth to everyone. However, protectionist trade policies are on the rise and we're now in the midst of a full blown trade war between the two most powerful economies in the world, China and the USA. Our next speakers bring varied expertise on trade and foreign policy. One is a high level advisor on trade and economics, and the other is an advisor to a grassroots protest movement. Please welcome to the stage, in conversation with founding editor of UK wired David Rowan, the lawyer for both Wikileaks and the yellow vests movement Juan Branco on one of Donald Trump's leading advisors on foreign policy, Dr. Michael Pillsbury.
Hi this is where we talk about geopolitics for 20 minutes, but it's quite important. It's about establishing a New World Order, and trade wars are happening, which is going to start. I'm David Rowan. I am hosting a secret new podcast, which we haven't yet announced with the Web Summit team where we go on Walks With Founders. Michael Pillsbury, at the end of the sofa is a China expert at the Hudson Institute in Washington, DC. And Donald Trump has called him a leading authority on America and China. And next to him is Juan Branco, who has written a best selling book. He's a lawyer who's worked with the gilet jaunes, with Wikileaks. And we're going to look at where we are now. There's a short term trade war between the US and China. But we're also going to look at the wider implications.
Michael, how worried, concerned should we be at these tariffs that keep getting introduced between Washington and Beijing? Who can be the winner?
Well, the Chinese like to say win win for both sides, but the Americans suspect that means one win for China and then another win for China. So both sides can win. Global economic growth is being affected by the tariff war. And we almost had a deal last year in May. The administration keeps the details secret, so do the Chinese but it was 150 pages long. It involved an office being set up in Beijing by us, and an office in Washington by China, that would be able to punish violations of intellectual property theft or other things. The Chinese at the last minute, apparently, because of hardliners in Beijing, they blocked the agreement. So since last May, the effort has been to put this back together. And the Chinese position is very clear. They want all tariffs removed, or they won't give anything. And the American position is just the opposite. The tariffs will stay on, and you must earn your way out by good conduct. So I'm very concerned about the future of global economic growth. The IMF has already estimated about a half of 1% or more will be cut from global economic growth next year, and the trade wars could in fact get worse. The tariffs could be placed much higher than they are now.
And you have expressed your own concerns about China's motivations. You had a best selling book yourself and the title may giveaway where you stand, The 100 Year Marathon, China's Secret Strategy to Replace America as the Global Superpower. What do you think China's end game is?
Well, China is very concerned by one word that I could teach everybody here to say. So you can say you learn the word of Chinese today. It's in the fourth tone means of following kind of sharp tone. Everybody could say it. The word is bah. Bah. Bah is a hegemon or a tyrant who controls the world. And China sees America as a bad bah. So the Chinese New World Order, the most important thing about the world order China wants is no more bah. The American side thinks that the bah is kind of a heavy burden. It's been quite difficult to establish the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the United Nations. This whole structure we call the world order had a lot to do with American initiative after World War Two. The Chinese want to make this what they call a more just world order, they'll keep parts of it, but other parts will be invented. This is also affecting the trade talks, because the Chinese side does not want the trade talks to be won by the old bah. And when when America says, China wants to be the bah, you want to replace us. This makes the Chinese very angry. So we asked them why. You could be the largest economy in the world you can be twice as big as America, what's wrong with that for you Chinese? They say well, bah means tyrant, ruthless, no virtue. We will be a much better kind of Bah that you Americans were.
So you see this as a existential battle for global dominance?
I'd refer if you use the word bah. Who will be the bah?
Juan Branco, you represent people who have been affected by global trade, the workers, people whose organizations are being challenged by the dominance of big corporations. You've worked for refugees and bringing legal actions against the European Union. How concerned are you that free trade is being inhibited?
Well, first, I would like to thank the Web Summit for reminding us that Tony Blair is free of movement. He was here a few hours ago, instead of in spite of having triggered the deadly war in Iraq who has costed tens of thousands of people alive. And that in the same time, Julian Assange is still in prison in London for having revealed the crimes committed by the US and the UK. I'm not used to be surrounded by so many war criminals. So it's kind of a new, a new setup for me. 
But regarding the, and that, actually, my thanks to the Web Summit are sincere in the sense that it allows really to show that Tony Blair is free of movement, and it's good to be to see it and not just to forget about that and it allows to show that Julian is not present here. Whilst I think many of you would like to hear his thoughts about this subject. He has worked a lot on commercial trade, revealing the secrets, commercial agreements, the set, and so forth, and showing how they were secretly negotiated in order to favor a certain number of interest. And, of course go against many others and years have defended the many people in France, Yellow Jackets who have seen their lives destroyed, because there was an ideology, which was not substantive by fact, on trade on free trade on the freedom of trade, which was supposed to bring a greater good at some point for humanity, but that in the meantime, Meantime, sorry, could destroy the planets could destroy thousands of lives that could not be taken back to where they were before. And that this was only perceived as an econ attending economic perspective. So alive from an economic perspective is some thing that will be substituted at some point, because you will get a new kid raised and he will replace the person who has been destroyed. And so I mean, you can destroy lives for generations. Schumpeter described that and nothing will happen from a statistic perspective. It's not the case, in reality, of course. Those people has been very important to open the eyes regarding this situation. And I mean, Macron had prepared a helicopter to fly away his palace, the beginning of December because there was such an anger in France against these elites, which were completely indifferent to the consequences of their decisions that they were ready to invest the museum and seen my home is today in China negotiating to open a more even even more the borders in a commercial way with China between China and France. And he's pushing and he has stated publicly especially to have more pork, French pork being sold to China 10,000 kilometres away. I mean, one of the main goals today of a president that pretends to be modern, to pretend to be ecological is to try to have pork being done in France, raised in France. Then puts in a condition that will be able to travel 10,000 kilometres and sold to Chinese people. It makes literally no sense and this absurdity and this complete absurdity and disconnection of these individuals who are limiting us today who are pushing us to an abyss because it's destroying the planet and destroying the individuals who are today trying to struggle for life. I mean, I mean, I think it's very well exemplified by this current situation and the fact that they do not realize I don't even understand how Macron was seen Xi Jinping doesn't ask himself when he starts talking about pork, but how can I think of bringing French pork to China? What's the meaning of this? Well, what how did I make up of these not only a goal in my negotiations, but also how did I do public statements to show how important what I was doing was for the French people are how disconnected they can be, I don't know. What I know is that these sensors which are created by these world order, which is falling apart will probably trigger extremely harsh consequences. And it's very hard, very easy. I saw Tony Blair again, speaking about populism and complaining about capitalism. But I don't know what populism is, I just know that there is a rage that is rising. And of course, it's not well represented clear because basically the world of technology is benefiting massively from a financial perspective. But I don't think from an ethical, nor even in in terms of inventive witty perspective of these globalization, but you have millions of people who are being basically enslaved or used as consumers of these products that are imposed to them, far from that the around us that are being used actually, to serve us to guide us in these places backstage is to give water to the most favorite favorite of us to give us free food free. I don't even understand why we do not pay for food where it's being the most privileged. I mean, no, the system is really, I mean, you have to pay 1500 years to be here. Do we realize how absurd I mean in the country in Which the average income is almost half of that trade of that price. And this is all of course, set up by this globalization ideology.
That Macron's argument would be free trade will eventually create economic prosperity which will trickle down to the workers.
Now it will just put pressure, even more pressure on worker on workers, especially from countries like France because in terms of competitive city, they will never be able to be too close as little as someone who works in Bangladesh in China who has no social security who has no capacity to defend his rights. So they will just be crushed by this ideology. But not only that, again, you will crush the planet as a whole sending French pork in China. Again, just think of what is going on here.
Michael, the system.
No let the applause continue.
The system is rigged against the workers and the environment. What's so bad about a new world order?
Well, the workers in the environment in many issues of standards are built into trade talks, trade agreements, whether they're multilateral like the like the rules of the WTO, or bilateral agreements. They try to cover issues that Juan is raising. they've not been successful. And one of the biggest problems about free trade now is if you're a startup, or you have a new idea for a new technology, one of your greatest problems now is not worker standards or bad water or pollution. It's the theft of intellectual property by China. This is the heart of the trade talks. If you have a new idea, let's say for a mobile game, like fatale fantasy 15 $69 billion New Economy is mobile games. The Chinese immediately tried to steal. What makes the mobile games popular in the field of startup technology, including old technology is vulnerable to China. And it's probably they're probably two reasons for Chinese economic growth over the last three decades, you know, they've averaged 10% a year. So their economy is 10 times bigger now than it was in 2001 20 times bigger than in the beginning. One reason has been the intellectual property theft. But the other is what Juan is talking about. China now is almost the most unequal society in the world. They used to have the dream of a communes and equality in China, it was called Communist China. For that reason. All of that was changed about 40 years ago, when China's leaders said to get rich, is glorious, and China bit began to leave behind the underprivileged of the country. So Donald Trump seems to listen to what you say what would you advise him now to do as he gets deeper and deeper into a terrorist fled trade war? Well, President Trump first wrote about China as a challenge in a book 20 years ago. He said it will be the number one challenge America faces in the world. And he meant in terms of economics, trade technology, he deeply admires the Chinese people. So his idea is how can we increase trade between the US and China, these two great economies were $21 trillion now and GDP, China's about 15 trillion. So all other countries in the world even together, Don't come close to the Chinese idea of G to these two countries basically run the world. That's the direction we're going. And President Trump's trade talks are effort, I think will be successful and effort to have reciprocity to have the US and China play by the same rules and to have a mechanism where if they catch us or we catch them doing something unfair, they'll be a mechanism to have punishment by either side. So the direction the world is going is toward this G two small countries are being left out. And it's too bad.
Juan, let's just say Donald Trump reads your book. You've written the powerful one, critiquing president macro. Let's say he calls you into give him some advice. What would you suggest that he does?
I on France, or?
on the trade was that we're going through at the moment not before
that I would ask him to free Julian Assange, I'm sorry to insist on that. But he's the one who has the power for that. So if you are able to speak with him, I would like you to convey that message. There is no reason for this guy to be held in jail in seven square meters in a jail that was built for terrorism in 
Back to the question
but the British, the British hold him not
No no it's for an extradition demand from the US. So it's the US who hold them. And we know that. So and regarding free trade, I'm I mean, I'm an enemy as a French person of the power of the non  today because of course, he's trying, as you said yourself to try to create G2 to that will impose its rule to all the other countries. And of course, the only solution if we want to avoid what I consider to be a new kind of new fascism in which you have protectionism abroad, and very liberal rules inside your country in which we let some kind of savage capitalism basically destroy society. We have to think for the people who consider themselves as as progresses as have a new alternative that starts by building back sovereign space at the National or a bit larger level but probably not in the EU which is not capable. We have this we have realized that after years of years of Waiting to create that to defend again, or space commercially speaking to create, again, simply boundaries that will allow us not to get commercial commercial products that vide that violates environmental rules, social rules to sanction those countries who commit those violations and stop with these kind of incredible knives. The I mean, Emmanuel McComb appears to be a rational, serious person modern. And yet he considered that opening the borders with China commercially speaking, speaking will be beneficial for France. He has no power to go against China in case China would violate the the clauses of the negotiations that they're putting in place. There is no way that we will be able to defend ourselves by going forward in freedom in the free trade movement we have to protect ourselves again protect the weaker of society has been has been completely forgotten these last 20 years under the excuse that in the long term It would be favorable for the general cause. We have discovered in one thing, the case and the planet will not be livable if we continue that path before that moment. And we have to renew politically because this is a political subject either through a revolution, either through the Constitution of a new front, an alternative to this current system. For me, Macron and Trump are very similar internally
Sadly we're going to be able to have that revolution here, because we have to make way for the next session. 
President Trump does admire president Macron. So we disagree about that.
We didn't quite. Thank you, Michael Pillsbury and Juan Branco. 
Thank you.