
Casey Lau: Not many companies can count Marc Benioff and will.i.am amongst their investors. But our next guest certainly can. His company made the award winning VR film Arden's Wake, which featured Jamie Foxx and Queen Latifah. Here to tell us about new ways to experience your favorite worlds and characters, please welcome to the stage, the CEO of Penrose Studios, Eugene Chung. 
Eugene Chung: Hello. My name is Eugene Chung, CEO and founder of Penrose Studios. Penrose is a startup based in San Francisco and we work with technology such as artificial intelligence, AR, VR. And our goal is to deliver them in a way that is natural and human to us. As humans, we desire meaningful social connections with beings. The Roman writer Ovid, told the tale of Pygmalion. Pygmalion crafted a sculpture, Galatea, a such otherworldly perfection, that he fell in love. He was stricken by Galatea's inability to love back. And out of sympathy to the devout Pygmalion, the goddess Venus granted Pygmalion's wish, and breathe life into Galatea. Galatea's story has repeated in places such as Pinocchio and Shakespeare's Winter's Tale. Spike Jonze's movie, Her, is a modern Galatea, where why Joaquin Phoenix's character falls deeply in love with Scarlett Johanssen's AI. The dream of artificial beings made human has been part of the human psyche for thousands of years. That future has never been closer than it is today. technologies such as AR and VR have a power to take seemingly inaccessible technologies such as AI and package them in a relatable and human way. True human intelligence or artificial general intelligence, AGI for short, is still so far off that many believe that it may never even be possible. But the power of embodied beings that utilize the powers of current AI will still be extremely compelling, and we are only on the cusp of those possibilities. today. We are on the verge of creating digital characters that react and interact in a way never before experienced. These characters could in fact be the most human way we have ever interacted with a computing platform and could form the basis of the operating systems of the future. We call these virtual beings, and they're already here. All of these images are real digital characters that exists today. They range the gamut from stylized to realistic, but they all have personalities, influence, and fans. They live cross platform from social media, to music, to video games and productivity. And we're only beginning to tap the potential humanity's relationship with these virtual beings. And there's a lot more that is going to be ahead. So this is our virtual being Meena, the hero of Penrose's latest piece Arden's Wake, which has won awards around the world, including the first Lion for best VR at the Venice International Film Festival. Virtual beings are the carriers of human story. And Meena's story is one of family and loss and finding one's true self. It's a universal story. Now let's go back to Meena's beginning and talk about how a virtual being is born.
Eugene Chung: As with most good stories, virtual beings begin with character. As Robert McKee said, true character is revealed and the choices a human being makes under pressure. The greater the pressure, the deeper the revelation, the truer the choice to the character's essential nature. While humans come from the womb, virtual beings are birthed with words. As with a movie, or TV show, our hero Meena's character is built through the choices she has made, and will make throughout her life. So, once we figured out who Meena is, we can begin to explore what she looks like. These are some of the early sketches that the amazing artists of Penrose drew based on Meena's character foundations and her story. From all these choices, one stood out to us, and so Nina's digital form began. We then breathe life into Mina, giving her different feelings and emotions. Without life came increasingly refined and sophisticated, expressive capability.
Eugene Chung: Through exploring the depths of meanest character, we came to understand her history and how she came to be who she is today. In conjunction with developing Meena's character, we crafted her world. They were mere sketches at first, that those sketches became more vivid and ultimately more clear throughout our entire world development process. Much of our world develop process was done directly in VR itself through VR native asset creation tools, which are technologies that we have developed at Penrose that allow us to build entire worlds with our own hands, as if the entire universe were made of clay that we could craft directly in real time. From that, we placed Meena and her father Tied into their world. And looking at the horizon, Nina looks yearning for adventure and independence.
Eugene Chung: But VR is not the end to Meena's story. Like Pygmalion's Galatea, we are bringing Mina into our own world through the power of AR technology. Here's Meena on a table in our studio in San Francisco.
Eugene Chung: Then, last year on this very stage, we at Penrose took things a step further, and enabled Meena's ability to interact with a live audience. Let's take a look.
Someone: Being at a place like Penrose Studios, where we have this opportunity to define new workflows and new ways to make things is just a breath of fresh air. AR VR is just at its birth, just in the beginning. We are the ones who are going to push it forward. We are the ones who are going to make it happen. We're creating something that no one really yet fully understands. And that's the most exciting thing. Childhood is this amazing time where you are free and you have this ability to have this naive appreciation for the world and excitement for the world and really an excitement for everything that you see around here.
Someone: Can you show us what's inside your cabin.
Someone: I haven't cleaned up appropriately. I'm sorry. I wasn't expecting so many guests. Last time that this came about was 1890s 1900s cinema, flat screen record linear screen emerged. And I was always like wouldn't be great to have lived back then to be there to help define what this thing was. And you know, I was kind of longing for that and never thought I'd live to see it. 
Eugene Chung: Thank you. Driven by the solid foundations of character and story, Meena was powered by a real human to interact with a live audience. But our technologies are developing at a rapid pace. And increasingly Meena and other virtual beings are being driven by AI. To put things in perspective, according to the World Economic Forum, by 2020, there will be 35.9 zettabytes, that's 35.9 trillion gigabytes of data that will be generated by humanity. This is a five fold increase from 2015. And it's only going to be growing faster. As data increases the power of machine learning and deep learning will increase the pace. By 2049, AI is projected to be advanced enough to generate a top 40 pop song, make a creative video, and even write a New York Times bestseller. Therefore, to appropriate Otto von Bismarck, the great questions of the day will be settled by data and space. But the key principle underlying everything will be human connection. The creativity that our AI powered virtual beings will have in the coming years will be astonishing, exciting, and unprecedented in the history of humanity. We look forward to what the future will bring.
Eugene Chung: Thank you very much.