
Good morning, everybody. My voice is a little bit. Well, it's not so great. But I really wanted to come on stage to introduce the next speaker. I'm a very passionate European. Is there anybody here who's passionate about Europe? 
Next up, we're delving into one of the most historic events of the decade of many decades that will transform the face of the European Union, and perhaps the world. In the three years since the United Kingdom voted to leave the European Union, our next guest has been the focal point in the negotiations between both parties. Last month ahead of the initial October 31 deadline, he described the task of Brexit as like climbing a mountain. Today, he joins us to discuss how close to the top of the mountain we are and what the European landscape will look like when we do get there. Please get ready to give a big Web Summit Welcome to chief negotiator of Brexit, Michel Barnier.
Workable solution to avoid what we have agreed at negotiator level is fair and balanced together with the UK we have achieved decisive progress. The UK wants to continue benefiting from our free trade agreements. How do we solve this issue and this work will be intense and ensure no hard border on the island of Ireland. And the agreement must work for everyone but our work is not finished.
First thing thank you, Paddy and all the best for your voice. What a pleasure to be with all of you this morning. It's very first time in my life. I am in the same stage as a Wladimir Klitschko, Eric Cantona and Ronaldinho. It is a privilege, it could be also a risk. 
Ladies and gentlemen, you are all here to discuss and shape our future, the future of our lives and the future of our continent. And this future will be shaped by multiple trends. One of which is this extraordinary and complex negotiation I have the honor to conduct on the behalf of the European Union for the last three years because Brexit is not only about the divorce between the EU and the UK, with so many consequences, so many underestimated consequences. It's also about building a new partnership with the UK, a new partnership that benefits citizens and you companies working in and with the UK, a new partnership that fosters stability on our continent. Here, let me share a personal story with you.
I spent 10 years of my life long time ago organizing the Winter Olympics in Albert, really my own region of Savoy in the Alps, climbing a mountain.
10 years of work for 16 days.
That's a good training for Brexit.
But this experience that taught me one thing, solving any problem in your personal life or in your professional life becomes a lot easier once you put in into perspective. Once you look beyond the immediate horizon. And that's what I have been doing since the very first day of my current mission on Brexit. So what is our perspective beyond Brexit? First, first peace on island of Ireland, that you Paddy
Second protecting our single market, which is our biggest asset into the today's world. The reason for which we are respected in Beijing or in Washington, an ecosystem in which your economic success is built, an ecosystem that goes far beyond far beyond a free trade area and served building a future relationship together with the UK, not against UK. Not without the UK. And I trust the UK will choose the same path after its general election on 12th of December.
Let me say a few words about the divorce, about the past before moving to the future.
On the 17th of October, we reach an agreement with Boris Johnson and the UK government. The same day, the 27 EU leaders endorsed this agreement. Once ratified, it will bring certainty to all the uncertainty created by Brexit, as any divorce created uncertainty. Certainty for European citizens in the UK and British nationals in the EU, 4.5 million people. citizens have always been our priority. And we agreed to protect their rights for life. Certainty for all those who benefit from projects funded by the EU budget, local and national authorities, farmers, startups or civil society actors in the 27 Member States and in the UK. We agreed that the financial commitments taken at 28 will be honored at 28. Certainty for all those people and businesses concerned by the many other separation topics. Just one example. If you live in the EU, and you have purchased something on the uk website, you probably have exchanged your personal data with UK businesses. What happens to your personal data in the UK after Brexit? Why will this data still be protected by strict EU rules in this wisdom agreement, we agreed that for the processing of this data, the UK will ensure a level of protection equivalent equivalent to that under you low. And finally, our agreement includes a transition period, which was respected by the British government it will give businesses time to adapt until the end of 2020. And perhaps one or two years more up until the end of 22. In case of a joint agreement between the UK and the EU, there is an element in this withdraw agreement we also add to bring certainty to Ireland at Northern Ireland. Let me be frank. Until now, no one no one has ever managed to explain to me the added value of Brexit. No one.
And not even Nigel Farage.
And the place ladies and gentlemen where Brexit creates the greatest risks and problems is the island of Ireland. Here we are not only speaking about economy and trade, we are talking about people. Part of that stake is peace and stability and peace is still recent in this region. It came back in 1998 with a Good Friday Belfast agreement based based on the absence of Eun our border, under Hired on So we had to and we did agree on the legally operative solution to reconcile four objectives. know our border between South and North in Ireland, preserving the old economy, three, protecting the integrity of the EU 27 Segars market, your single market, ensuring that Northern Ireland remains in the UK is customs territory, which was extremely important to Prime Minister Boris Johnson. And to be frank discussion where our time difficult at the end, we spend not no less than five days and five nights in the same negotiating, negotiating room. But together we have delivered Glaser, we found a solution to the unique situation on the island of Ireland, a solution that protects businesses and consumers in the US single market and a solution that also protects the constitutional integrity of the UK. It is when the EU and the UK have reached an agreement and for the first time ever, the house of Cummins has approved the deal two weeks ago. But it has not yet completed its ratification. So the UK asked us for more time to ratify this agreement and also more time to organize general elections. And the EU 27 agreed to give more time until end of January next year for the UK to do so. Brexit is a school of patience.
Brexit is a school of tenacity.
And even with when our deal will be ratified, that will not be the end of the story. We need to keep in mind that the orderly with Drew is a step, a necessary step. It is not a destination. We have a second, much more task to rebuild after the UK with Drew a new partnership with the UK, which will remain in any case of our friend, our ally, and our partner. We already agreed on the framework of this new partnership and we want it to be ambitious for trade in goods for services and investment. For data protection, for transport and energy, for fisheries, for judicial and police cooperation in criminal matters for foreign policy, security and defense and so many other areas that we say a few words on the two pillars of this relationship, the economic partnership and the strategic partnership on the first one, our economic trading partnership, I know that this negotiation will be difficult and demanding for one reason, the time will be extremely short 11 months if the UK withdrawal effective and the end of January next year, and if the transition period and as currently for seen The end of 2020 and because our and the UK starting points are not necessarily the same, the UK might want to be able to diverse. So euros in a big and mixed approach by economic sector and another side the EU will be cries strong guarantees for level playing field across the board. There will be more economic competition competition okay between the EU and the UK and that is normal. But the you will not tolerate unfair competitive advantage. Boris Johnson said he wants a best in class Free Trade Agreement. What does best mean for us? It means Free Trade Agreement whose aim is not only economic and financial profit with zero and zero quotas, but which is also in the interest of the people on there and Verizon environment and the living standards. That is why the level of ambition of our future Free Trade Agreement will be commensurate with the level playing field we achieve on social and environmental rights, state aid and tax matters. In other words, the UK should not think that ZOZ HAkA TAs will be enough. The EU will insist on ZO to life. The HAkA does, they will dumping summer 2020 in eight months, will already be a moment of truth. On how far we have gone, and whether an extension of the position will be needed.
The essential demand the second pillar of this feature relationship, equally important concerns our internal and external security. And our foreign policy. Also in this field of our cooperation will be proportionate to the level of commitment of the UK alongside the EU. But it will be unprecedented in scope index, the UK say that he will remain committed to the security of Europe. And when vital in the UK interest is at stake, there will be always solidarity between us. As part of our defense Corporation One example is the need to cooperate against new threats. In particular for our cyber security. Our future partnership should include the exchange of information and cyber incidents, attackers techniques at origin threats analysis, and best practices, including Drew when Rosie target the correct functioning of democratic systems. And crucially, we need to add a capacity to response jointly jointly to such attacks. Finally, as a condition of this economic and security partnership, we need to agree on a framework for data protection. In the EU. We are the tour to so called adequacy decisions to facilitate exchange of data with jurisdictions with an adequate level of production You is ready to consider the conditions of inadequacy decision on the UK as soon as possible after the UK with Drew on the basis, the basis of reciprocity This is a lemon in the late 18 century England, James what developed the steam engine. The dynamic is created soon spread to Belgium, France and Germany and Europe became the Crowther of the first Industrial Revolution. Today, in the 21st century, the US and China are in the lead. If we, if we in Europe, do not act now. The future of our industry jobs Bessemer data and ethical standards will be made Washington and in Beijing. This is Oldham or through you all know much better than me, as the new fourth industrial revolution is coming with the Internet of Things, robotics, artificial intelligence, and biotechnology. And my conviction is that Europe can be at its center again. Who is it 600 University, top quality researchers and innovative companies, as evidenced as these Web Summit in this one. But to reap the full benefits, we need to work together. We need to work together at 27. The day after tomorrow, commissioners Margaret Vista gay of ARU Hova, Carlos Moedas. will be here to give you some insight on Web the does and what do you will do with a new commission to boost the research while applying competition rules. This is how we would draw the lesson of the Brexit by building a stronger Europe, fostering growth and innovation for the benefit of European citizens and companies.
And we also need the 27th to continue working with the UK. The UK can take part in and contribute to the you programs that are open to serve country, in particular for cooperation and science, innovation in a Smith or cooperation between universities. And by building an ambitious partnership with this country. We in the European Commission will be ready to start the negotiation as soon as the UKR defies the wisdom agreement. We will do it according to the mandate given by the US 27 member states in close coordination with the European Parliament and with the National Parliament's. And we will do so respectfully, respectfully towards the UK, in full transparency and dialogue. Let me be finally be clear on one point. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as we have not completed both negotiations with the UK, the wisdom argument and the situation, the risk of a cliff edge remains and we should all remain vigilant, we should all remain vigilant and prepared to that possible outcome. But if we managed to complete this negotiation in a short time we have, then I believe, that feature regeneration, we look at this negotiation in this more positive way or in less negative way. They might agree with me that Brexit is lose lose definitively, but hopefully, they do might also say, in this difficult context, we managed to preserve the essential friendship with UK cooperation with UK and John ambition for a better future. Thank you very much for you attention.