
Toronto arrived on the world taxing the fourth largest tech market in all of North America, what we're doing in Canada is making sure that there is room for everyone to succeed.
rato is having a moment we are building an ecosystem and Silicon Valley's been around for 50 plus years so this isn't gonna happen overnight. I believe the culture of Silicon Valley drove others to a business model that is incredibly destructive.
Let's launch a sleepwalker into a world where technology authoritarians ism governs our choices. Technology is all around us, we are constantly being surveil
responsible data use, is one of the biggest social issues of our time. We kept the balance of privacy responsibility and technology, right. It's about people. We all come together as a people.
We don't succeed. Together, we're all going to fail separate.
I don't think I ever dreamed that Toronto, will be a destination.
It's a very exciting time to be in Toronto. This is the single best time as an entrepreneur to be fundraising in this country. We have extraordinary talent here, we have a really strong economic advantage or a new company, you can't be an island, you have to build partnerships with a collision ring opportunity. Collision belongs very fortunate to be part of this journey. Looks like collision are very important for the tech community because they enabled the movement of ideas to brings in diversity of different talent into the room. The very collaborative, very inclusive partners and our customers are here, we have to be here, definitely be back next year.
Please welcome to the stage, co host of rise and co founder of startups Hong Kong, Casey Lau.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good morning, and welcome to day two of web summit. I hope you all enjoy yesterday as much as I did. I'm delighted to be back. My name is Casey Lau and I'm the co host with Paddy Cosgrave of the rise conference which you do in Hong Kong.
As you may know by now each morning, and every afternoon before we kick off the main content, we're showcasing the very best and brightest seed and growth stage companies at web summit companies that are creating a real buzz in their industries. We believe that these could be the startups that everyone is talking about in 2020, and we've worked with some of the world's leading startup investors to find them. We think you'll agree that the stories and more importantly the ideas behind our next companies are absolutely incredible. So let's get started. First up, we have Luisa, who is the founder and the VP of Engineering at Fyde, a Silicon Valley based beyond perimeter security startup, with an engineering team based in Porto, Portugal, please give a huge welcome to our first speaker Luisa Lima.
Hello, good morning web summit. How many of you have access to your work email from your personal phone from the hotel Wi Fi or from other conference that you're sitting at since you arrived. Did you read.
Armand MacPaw for us that you're sitting at since you arrived. Did you realize that it could be putting your company at risk. Companies are under attack. Today, more than ever, there are 6 million records reached every single day. Each of these attacks costs on average.
Armand MacPaw for us that you're sitting at since you arrived. Did you realize that it could be putting your company at risk. Companies are under attack. Today, more than ever, there are 6 million records reached every single day. Each of these attacks cost on average, 3 million euros can take more than 200 days to get detected. And actually, 25% of these attacks are not caused by a thorough attackers, but rather by our very own.
So after all talkers, but rather by our very own internal employees. It seems that secure access is broken. But how did we get here. Well, work used to happen only at the office, and our employees where they're sitting together with.
percent of their time doing non engineering work. And at Valispace we want to change that.
I'm sure you recognize these two rocket boosters on SpaceX which landed in February last year.
The only way such a complex engineering challenge is possible, is if all the engineering data is digitized connected and all accessible in one single place our browser based software is doing exactly that, and companies all around the world are already using it to build rockets satellites moon landers and fusion reactors.
They are digitizing their entire engineering tool chain and saving up to 30% of their time. And for satellite projects these could be yours.
At Valispace, we want to empower the engineers of today, to build amazing things. And we want to empower the engineers of the future to build things so we can only imagine today. Thank you.
All right, next up we have crowd justice, which is a crowdfunding platform that allows communities to access the courts to protect their communal assets. Let's hear it for the founder and CEO, Julia Salasky who will tell us proud. Justice his story.
In late 2015 someone emailed in. They wanted to use our then new platform, because they had a problem. Dr. Chris day had just been fired from his job as a doctor for speaking up about patient safety standards in his hospital, but he also had another problem. He couldn't access a lawyer. We helped Dr. Chris de leverage the crowd, to be able to pay for legal services to stand up for himself, and for the patients that he had stood up for his case went all the way to the Court of Appeal anti Juan. It turned out that before that, in the UK, training, doctors didn't have the right to blow the whistle. Now, they do. Since then, at crowd justice legals first product, we've enabled thousands of people like Kris, to be able to stand up for their rights, and we've been at the forefront of some of the biggest issues of our time. From Brexit to Cambridge Analytica to the extinction rebel Liam. We've helped all of these people in a world where at the moment the rich and the powerful often hold all the cards. And in so doing, we've helped change the way consumers can pay for legal services. But we haven't stopped there. We realized that to change the world for the people who need legal services. You also have to change the world for the people who provide them lawyers are still delivering services, the same way they did, 100 years ago. In the UK, a lot of lawyers still wear wigs, a lot of law firms are still debating whether they can store documents in the cloud. That is to say the least, not user friendly. It prevents people from using the system. So what we do at Legl is we build tools to help clients access and use the legal system. And for lawyers to be able to help serve their clients, better. Simple things like modern payment methods better onboarding tools more transparency in communication, because our vision at legal is that the legal services market should work for everyone. For people like Chris who needs to be able to afford a lawyer. And for people like you who might dread the experience. In a world this is broken as ours, the legal system is a really important tool. We should all be able to access it. Thank you.
All right, next up we have the CEO and co founder of fiscal a London based FinTech company whose vision is to democratize financial management for micro businesses globally. Please welcome Alina out onto the stage.
Hello.
Hello.
How many of you in this room have dreamt about starting your own business or have actually started your own business and how many of you dreamt about managing your business finances every weekend I certainly haven't.
There are almost half a billion businesses in the world, with less than 10 employees. This number will increase by 20% over the next 10 years, the global economy is built on these businesses, but they are the most underserved by technology. 190 million of them use digital services on mobile, but less than 20% have access to cloud services.
This is why we built fiscal.
We built fiscal to offer everyone the ability to manage their business finances with just a spot my smartphone. We build fiscal for the business owner, and not for the accountant. We built it, to be beautiful intuitive and automated and crucially, we made fiscal available in many languages. We also priced it to be available in any country.
And this is what fiscal looks like. We made it easy for the business users to see how their business is doing. We made it easy for anyone in the world to invoice in under two minutes. We made it easy to invoice in any language, and to take payments locally and globally.
We launched on the A year ago, and now we have customers in over 116 countries to reach them. We needed a strong distribution network. So we have partnered with mobile operators. Banks cloud and payment providers.
In fact, this week, we announced our partnership with VP from JPMorgan Chase.
Cisco is much more than just a SAS platform. Our API's and data engine, provide banks and lenders with true financial data intimacy with their customers in real time. This is essential for them to understand and better serve their customers.
If you'd like to use fiscal, there is a web summit offer code you've seen on the screen, I'm Alina Lapusneanu, co founder and CEO fiscal.
Sometimes I think the hardest thing to do pitching in front of all these people is it's making sure that remote work sometimes So, thank you for being so gracious with any slowness in the clicker category their. Next up is join.com, the fastest growing freemium talent acquisition suite in Europe, speaking today is founder Manoj Harasgama, who's not Japanese will let him explain to you how joined com can help everyone in the audience generate more and more and more and better candidates for any open position.
Hi Holly Schalit. The stadium's huge very humbled to be here.
But I think the stadium suits our company. So thanks for being here, I'd like to tell you a little bit about joined.com and HR software as a service for recruiters.
I'm the founder of the company, and I'm going to tell you a little bit more in a second.
My co founder and I are a little bit nerdy. So we started off by setting out 10 hypotheses before we started, I'd like to tell you about our hypothesis zero, which is essentially the reason for everything we do.
Basically, we asked 1000 recruiters before we started, for whom did they think they're writing their job add their job description for 70% of them said they're writing it for the candidate. 30% of them said they're writing it for the hiring manager.
We've been dropped the bomb, and told them what hypothesis zero is you're writing your job, add your job description for a machine, not a human being. Why is that every job board every job channel for the recruiter, where they post their job is fundamentally On the flip side, a search engine, where the candidate looks for the role they're looking for.
In that context that search engine is an algorithm is a machine that the recruiters nowadays need to tame.
Today 2019, it's an employee driven world. 30% of candidate traffic is being lost by the largest and most dominant job boards across the planet. At the same time, 40% of all placements, all hires globally are done via these channels. So how is that possible. It's basically because there's a diversification of job boards job boards, like for example be hands for design you might know Stack Overflow, or get hub for tech, or Instagram, Facebook and Google for jobs channels that didn't exist before. And that essentially creates a nightmare for recruiters. You can see in this case the young lady from HR there, who now needs to manage and team machines job boards, taught in the dozens and the hundreds, to be able to achieve the same amount, and better candidates then as you did before.
What's the solution joint. com is a HR software as a service with which you can generate more and better candidates, through our software you can automatically multi post your job ads on all job boards, and at the same time optimize the algorithms, on all of them in order to do search.
These are a few milestones We were founded last year, half a million visits per month, thousands of clients across Europe, hundreds of thousands of candidates with fully self funded with 40 FTS, and essentially here my contact details, but I was told by Casey before Hou just hosted and all the other MCs not to do what I'm about to do. So I need all of you to wake up. If I say join you say Come join john giant, giant.
Excellent.
Alright, next we have bubble. I met this founder in Hong Kong Starbucks three years ago and now I'm reunited with him backstage here at web summit so that's quite an amazing story so but bubble does is they are introducing a new way to build an app. It's a point and click programming tool for web and mobile no prior coding experience is needed. So he's doing very well so tell us more. Please welcome out co CEO and founder, Emmanuel Straschnov.
Good morning everyone. It's great to be here. I'm Emmanuel Straschnov, founder of bubble and extremely excited to be here.
In 2019 we used to saying that everybody needs to be online businesses and individuals software is eating the world. And we used to think that that many people needed a website. But now we're realizing that's actually a little bit more complicated than this, and what you really need is an application, Muneeb, a website that can manipulate data have functionality and connects to external services.
And the challenge was this is today, if you're not an engineer, you're going to have to hire an engineering team to do so. And this is extremely expensive and slow, it's fair to say today that engineering is the biggest bottleneck of the business world. That's what bubble solves by changing who builds your software. What bubble is it's a visual framework that lets you build web applications for non technical and technical people like you build it in our editor and we host everything for you.
How does it work, you design your interface element by element, not completed in any way. And then you defied functionality, by doing something where you can see here saying when the button is clicked, you send the user, you change the charge the user for a paid service for instance, send an email and change the page. Today we have the feature set that is necessary to build something such as Airbnb, Twitter or even Facebook, one of our users clone Twitter info days just to play.
How far can you go with something like this, something we hear often about local tools, is that it doesn't scale is great for prototyping. Well, let me share some stories. Our biggest user in San Francisco has raised over $300 million, and processed over a billion dollars of loans, through a bubble bill platform, three teams went to Y Combinator another Tim in Paris raise $15 million bubble is built for scale. If Airbnb were started today, it could very much be built without engineers. We started in 2012 bootstrap for seven years being profitable to build a product to now be ready for expansion, we just raised around and starting with our 300,000 users are ready to expand much more massively.
I'll finish by talking Why are we doing this. We're doing this because computer literacy, to me, is the biggest challenge that technology will have to solve in the coming decade. Today, if you're not an engineer, or if you don't have access to capital, you will not be able to use software to solve problems in your local communities. Tomorrow, whether it's five to 10 years from now, if you don't know how to program, you will not be able to find a job.
We try to teach people how to code. And the truth is a decade into this experience. It's actually not working as people expected. So we need to change the tools, and that's what bubble does. Thank you very much.
Alright, our next speaker is Rui sales, the President and CEO of CO of Stratio, a company fusing automated engineering and machine learning to drive a zero downtime future that get really up on the stage
with Varni web summit. At Stratio, we believe you know Walter Louise all disruptions without loss connections. A world where vehicles, never break down from a car walking a road to track with medicine or food that may never reach the destination. We have all been affected by travel disruptions reliability is critical, automotive manufacturers do extensive testing in extreme conditions from frizzy mountains to birding deserts. However, many problems are only found when vehicles are already operating on the road. Often, after driving, many journeys.
Despite large investment in innovation. With today's date Alys technology vehicle manufacturers will require in Philipp capital in an endless number of engineers to achieve zero breakdowns, zero disruptions.
At Stratio, we have a solution by fusing automotive expertise with machine learning, or he serves as all of this to build an automated faulted anomaly detection system. It is a fully integrated into institution with models that can detect a failure, before it happens.
Today, your vehicles cannot predict failure.
We believe that in five to 10 years all vehicles will have this technology, without realizing it, you have already seen our technology and growth. We are working with some of the largest vehicle manufacturers in the world.
Automotive technologies. Take time to mature at scale. We have seen firsthand the challenges vehicle manufacturers face every day. without the acceleration of automated testing electric vehicles will take longer to come to market.
The same applies to the future of autonomy. Without this technology driverless vehicles will fail.
At Stratio, we are ready to bring to you a future that is autonomous electric and reliable. No surprises. No disruptions. Zero long time.
This will not be possible without the amazing team at Stratio. Thank you so much, every web summit.
Alright, our next company provides next generation visual content creation. They believe that generative AI will reduce the costs skill and language barriers to creating distributing and consuming content. Let's hear for Victor Riparbelli, the CEO and co founder of Cynthia Asia.
Good morning web summit. My name is Victor and today I am excited to share with you what we've been working on at some TCF for the last couple of years. We develop AI video Synthesia technology that helps content creators create much more, much more, and much better video content than what has ever been possible before.
That's a lot of passwords in one sentence. So let's just dig into what we actually do. Today we help our customers do two things. We help them translate their video content. So, traditional video translation is subtitling a dubbing generally not a very good experience equates to content. What we can do is we can resize the video and provide a completely native experience for the viewer. Let's see what that looks like.
In this video, you will learn how to react in the case of an unhappy customer.
Here's. You know I've been using Lucas King clients in countries such Fyde to Malaysia situations.
We also help our customers produce personalized video. So today, generally speaking video is a mass communication tool, you create one video and you show that to all your customers. We enable one to one communication between users and companies. The way that works is that based on our set of data points which could be the name of the customer could be product metrics, whatever you want to put in there, we can generate a video on the fly that's relevant to a particular customer. So let's see what that looks like, if you're building an AI fitness coach for example.
Hi Joshua, you're killing it. You just said a new personal 20 k running record, with a total time of 23 minutes, you are now in the top 9% of all users.
So why is this interesting. It's interesting because video is by far the most effective medium, we have today, because a video stimulates more of our senses than just a text article for example, it increases the content comprehension. And it also increased the emotional connection we have with that content. And that's why since the beginning of time, media has always gravitated towards being more visual and more interactive.
But this big problem because visual storytelling today is incredibly expensive, and it's incredibly difficult to scale. It requires cameras by studios requires actors and cast post production. The loop from having an idea to having a final piece of video content is really long. We change that by building a video generation platform that can turn any piece of data into a video could be an email, could be an article, could be a chatbot Syria Alexa provide a face to them, for example, all done 100% free software.
We're really excited about how synthetic media is going to fundamentally rewire the media industry over the next 10 years, we've got to see three major changes how we create contents going to change. Just as I showed you here IP ownership monetization is going to change. And very importantly, how we secure and verify consent, which the trust is at the center of what we do.
If you want to see how David make speak nine languages, using our technologies and please stop by tomorrow. Thank you very much.
Alright, our next company is an Israeli based startup called Cassiopeia, which is moving to the US this month be closer to its customer base speaking today he's the CEO and co founder of Cassiopeia which is a startup that creates a healthier company culture by using AI based technology to measure, non inclusive behaviors harassment and bullying. Let's get Shiran out
academic research shows that every year, more than 10% of employees will experience, non inclusive behaviors. Some can be very severe such as a recruitment and bullying, but also micro aggressions that make employees feel that they do not belong.
It's very obvious that these behaviors affect the company culture and shape the direction it will take
in the average mid sized company. The majority of incidents, go unreported, causing losses of more than, $2, million.
Every year, in employee turnover rates productivity losses and legal expenses. That doesn't even include the reputational damage.
I'm Shiran, the CEO of Cassiopeia. And I'm very excited to be here at the web summit.
We help executives, create the companies they always dreamed of by preventing non inclusive behaviors, my co founders and I experienced inclusive behaviors at the workplace, we came together to build Cassiopeia, because we had the right background in tech product legal to solve this challenge.
And after talking with dozens of executives, and they draft professionals, we get it. Keeping track of your company culture is hard, a jar can be everywhere all the time.
This is why we created Cassiopeia an end to end AI based platform that helps to create healthier, and more inclusive work environment.
We do that by early detection of non inclusive behaviors Cassiopeia as a model, analyze demographics, organizational data and communication metadata. The platform shows precisely what teams might experience non inclusive behaviors, and then offers personalized content and solution to prevent specific problems from escalating
by implementing our recommendations. Because you found minimize the behavioral risk and allows companies to grow. While fostering inclusive work environment.
We are using SAS subscription model, and we have dozens of paying customers in the US, UK, and Israel.
Our customers range from companies with few hundred employees, all the way through multinational companies with 10s of thousands employees.
We are backed by TechStars, and Google for setup and few of our angel investors are here at web summit.
I'm Shiran, the CEO of Cassiopeia if you're also passionate about creating better workplaces, come talk to us, and let's do it together.
All right. Next up, we have a company called manna, which provides drone delivery as a service to stack the restaurant chains, dark kitchens and online food delivery platforms, so please give a warm welcome to founder and CEO, Bobby Healy who will tell us more.
Hi everybody. I'm delighted to be here at web summit, as a another Irish man running the stage here, and I don't have any slides I don't have a clicker I'm going to show you for the first time the world has ever seen it on new aircraft, me and my team in Ireland and Wales are building a drone delivery as a service platform. We partner with restaurants, dark kitchens and restaurant chains around the world and offer them a drone delivery stack that performs their last mile logistics. We can operate that for a fraction of the cost of last mile delivery driven by people. Currently, we have two stories that make our business work the first story is the online food industry, everybody knows, Uber Eats everybody knows grub hub. These industry, this industry is currently a $200 billion industry, it's growing to 350 billion dollars by 2030. It's an enormous growing industry that consumers love people want food on demand, and they want to deliver to their house in the UK 750 million takeaway orders a year, 10 for every single member of the population. And that's where the very very constrained offering where food takes a peak time over an hour to get to the customer hamburgers and fries are no longer hamburgers and fries after 10 minutes as we all know, our platform and the second part of the story is what you see on the screen. This aircraft and it is an aircraft and that's the Wicklow mountains by the way it flies at 80 kilometers an hour as the crow flies with food. It flies over two kilometers from the restaurant directly to the consumers garden. It arrives at 80 meters in the air and the consumer gets a notification to say we've arrived. When the user accepts delivery of the product. The aircraft he sends to 10 meters, it hovers there, and it lowers the food down to the ground on a biodegradable string. It's as spectacular as it is practical. And we can complete that delivery for less than $1 for a fully loaded delivery. Right now, less than 20% of the world's population are addressable profitably by the online food platforms, our platform is fully autonomous and can deliver a profitable. Non road based delivery of food directly from restaurant to kitchens, to the other 80% of the world. We plan to power dark kitchens technology providers, large food chains with this platform. Over the next five years, and we are regulated by aviation regulators in Europe and the United States to do this. I'm Bobby Healy. this is Manoj. Thank you very much.
Alright, our final company of the morning is called Localyze. They're an all in one software solution that's fully supports companies and their international employees relocation processes. Localyze His goal is to build bridges instead of walls through simplifying international mobility lt Serena, please welcome Localyze founder, Hanna Marie Asmussen to the stage.
Hi everyone, my name is Hanna, I'm the CEO of Localyze, and we do international employee relocation as a service.
This is an extremely relevant topic because in this very moment, 164, million people live in work outside of their home country labor markets are increasingly global and this is further driven by Walter talent. The actual number of people moving abroad, every year is growing at 20%. This is a great trend, but everybody who ever relocated knows how complicated it can be.
You have to wait a long time for appointments, you have to deal with tons of paperwork and immigration. And you have to try and navigate in the city you've haven't never been in before.
It's complicated, people need help, but how existing relocation services are extremely expensive. They cost an average $20,000.
It's extremely time consuming for both company and employee.
And yet, support remains limited, and this is a big risk, we actually had clients that must new employees within two weeks because of limited relocation support.
We change that. At Localyze, we build a software that automates our processes, from immigration to social integration, and we are already able to catch 20% of the time we meet.
At the same time, we aggregate all stakeholders to write a one stop shop for relocation. We make sure that relocation support is easy, affordable and accessible to everyone, we prove that our model works because we already relocated people from 47 countries.
We launched only 12 months ago, and we are active in three markets, Germany, US and Canada, and Spain is going to be the fourth one from next week. We are growing at 45% on average month over month. These numbers are great, but what matters. As much as the candidates relocate because we believe in the positive impact of migration.
Our team is as international as the people relocate. We are 12 people we represent four nationalities and we speak 12 languages. and we are the ones who build bridges and times for other SAP building walls. Thank you.
That's amazing. So that's a wrap for this morning's breakout startups will be back at lunchtime with my very sleepy friend for Neil Sharma, who come back and do the growth stage startups and the most promising ones we found at lunchtime today. So coming up shortly. We will be opening day to web summit so stick around. We'll be right back.
Toronto firmly arrived on the world's taxing the fourth largest tech market in all of North America, what we're doing in Canada is making sure that there is room for everyone to succeed.
Raja is having a moment we are building an ecosystem, the Silicon Valley's been around for 50 plus years this isn't gonna happen overnight. I believe the culture of Silicon Valley drove others to a business model that is incredibly destructive.
Let's not just sleep walk into a world where technology authoritarians ism governs our choices. Technology is all around us, we are constantly being surveil
responsible data use, is one of the biggest social issues of our time. We kept a balance of privacy and responsibility and technology is great. It's about people. We all come together as a people.
We don't succeed. Together, we're all going to fail separately.
I don't think I ever dreamed that Toronto will be a destination for the kind of activity and you see, it's a very exciting time to be in Toronto. This is the single best time as an entrepreneur to be fundraising in this country, we have extraordinary talent here, we have a really strong economic advantage and we're a new company, you can't be an island, you have to build partnerships, avoid collision ring opportunity illusion belongs in very fortunate to be part of this journey, the best like collision are very important to the tech community because they enable the movement of ideas that brings in diversity of different talents into the world, very collaborative very inclusive partners and our customers are here, we have to be here.
I will definitely be back next year.
to see an ocean Menn.
Please take your seats, the stage will open in five minutes.
It's very important for conference
enabled the movement of ideas, the value of the conference was beyond just the week.
You got to get your message out to so many people.
If I had to boil down to one word, it would be inspiring. They're very collaborative very inclusive. It brings a diversity of different talent into the room. The pitch competition was pretty amazing pitching was pretty incredible. There's a lot of hype behind it. I have had a number of people contact me after that pitch who are really interested in my company collisions are really exciting event it's really a very clear statement about the position for Toronto.
Toronto and QAR handed.
Please welcome to the stage co founder and CEO of web summit Paddy Cosgrave
morning everybody. My voice is slowly coming back. We have a little tradition, we did it on the opening nice, I think it's very important reason, everybody comes to web so much from all over the world, is to of course meet our speakers, also to meet each other and all around you are fantastic entrepreneurs and engineers, the four corners of the world. So in a moment I'm going to ask all of you to stand up and just introduce yourself to the person beside you, maybe a second person, and then we'll sit down and kick things off so Let's all stand up. Here we go.
Axios.
22. This is Emma.
Fantastic. Well there's gonna be lots more time for introductions and great conversations over final two days.
I'm sure many of you were at night summit last night on Pink's race. I saw some of the pictures at three and 4am. And people were still having an incredible time night summit of course takes place again tonight and you'll find all the details in the app. Let's get going.
The world has reached an inflection point which digital technology is being used as both a powerful tool and formidable weapon. Our next guest is tasked with leading Microsoft, one of the world's biggest and most influential companies, through the intersection between technology and society, including cyber security, privacy ethics and human rights. Here to discuss new approaches to manage this era, and the steps that companies of all sizes can take to accept greater responsibility and partner with governments to shape the future and the author of a quite remarkable book, please give a huge warm welcome to the president of Microsoft, Brad Smith.
Thank you. Paddy. Thanks to all of you for being here this morning. Yeah, this has become a tremendous tradition, if you will, every November the world comes to Lisbon, and we meet each other at the web summit.
You're just two months from now, we're all going to be looking at our browsers picking up our papers and the discussion is going to be about the new decade. Because this December 31 will not only turn the page of the calendar to a new year, but to the first year of the 2020s. And I want to talk today about what this new decade means for all of us who are connected to technology, what it means. First for where technology is going but more than that, what it means in terms of that intersection that Paddy referred to the intersection between technology and society.
As we think about the decade ahead of us. I actually think it's helpful to start by just focusing for a moment on the fundamental of advances of this decade, the advances will all be building on. I think when historians look back at this decade, they will see that there were four fundamental changes that together really transform the nature of computing. There were ongoing advances in computing power as their head Ben for year after year for a number of decades before, but the cloud, really changed the nature of access to computing. You know, it was only in 2010, when this decade began that Microsoft actually first stored, a customer's data in a data center. And yet today as the decade comes to a close, cloud computing is ubiquitous all around the world.
In part, it has reduced the cost of access to technology. It has made it an operational rather than capital expense, and it has led to an explosion in data. We will start the next decade with literally 25 times as much digital data on this planet, as we had in the year 2010 and advances in artificial intelligence especially around deep learning around neural networks have transformed our ability to put that data to work.
It's a daunting collection of transformative changes. And at one level. It's exciting to think about what lies ahead and it makes it somewhat challenging to predict what will come next. But I think a few trends are clear. Over the next 10 years will similarly see for big advances at a minimum, will see classical computing digital computing, start to combine with quantum computing to unlock some of the world's most formidable computational and scientific challenges. We're going to see more data centers in more countries serving more kinds of customers, we're going to see innovations in the storage and processing of data, we better because unless we innovate a new ways to store data, we will never keep pace with the ongoing explosion in the creation of it.
We're going to see 5G.
Over the next decade, we'll see 5G becomes six G, and what it will really mean is that computing will become ambient, it will be in every device, it will be in every corner it will be in every part of our homes, in a sense that will become more like electricity. All around us without our necessarily thinking about it. And all of this is going to be used to fuel more AI indeed over the next decade. We'll start to talk about ag AI artificial general intelligence, not the singularity of science fiction lore, but the ability of artificial intelligence to operate outside of singular narrow silos and increasingly work across scenarios, enabling humans to discover insights in multiple disciplines. All of this adds up to an extraordinary era of change in extraordinary time of opportunity, but you might ask if all of that is true, Why are we living in such an age of anxiety. Because let's face it, we are.
And it doesn't matter where you live so often you read the news and people are talking about globalization, income inequality immigration or trade but the truth is, all of these are enabled by technology.
It's as if the world is so focused on the symptoms that we often don't talk enough about the fundamental causes of change in the world today.
And I think increasingly The world is looking at us. It is looking at the big companies but in truth it's looking at all of us who work in technology and asking us what is it that we are trying to do.
And I think what the world wants of us is to move technology forward as we are, but also to think broadly to advanced technology in a way that preserves values that are timeless values like fundamental human rights and respect, an opportunity for people.
And I think if we're going to address what the world wants of us.
We actually at times have to start by acknowledging the problems before us.
The truth is, technology has been an extraordinary asset for the world. But as we chose in the title of our book that Paddy.
Hey, there we go, the microphones back any tool can cease working as that microphone just showed the real point here, any tool can also become a weapon.
A simple tool can become a weapon, a broom can be used to sweep the floor, or a broom can be used to hit somebody over the head.
The truth is, the more powerful the tool, the more formidable the weapon.
When we look to the decade ahead.
In many respects AI will be a tool of the sort. The world has seldom seen before.
And hence it can become a weapon as well.
When you look back at the first half of the 20th century it was a time that was transformed by one invention above all else the combustion engine. It led to the car and the airplane the truck and the tractor, it changed every part of every economy. I think it's fair to say that over the next three decades from now to 2050. Ai is likely to play a similar role in the global economy. And so it really calls on us to think, as never before about what this means in terms of broader societal implications as we do so I think it's actually helpful to start by reflecting on a fundamental fact, these are not new questions. This technology may be new but the questions themselves are as old as technology itself. It's something I had the opportunity to witness firsthand earlier this year on a trip to the Vatican in Rome.
This is quite possibly the oldest institution.
On continental Europe. And when you go there you may have the opportunity to visit the library the Sistine library next to the Sistine Chapel. When I went I had the opportunity to go into a private room that was part of the library and see two books in particular that are not typically on display. But they are books that speak to us into the future of technology.
The first book was printed in the year 1450. It was the 24th Bible that you honest Gutenberg printed with his new printing press. It was a fascinating thing to see because the real message was that technology had led to the printing press, and the printing press, changed Christianity across Europe, it changed religion, because no longer Did someone have to sit in a church and listen to a priest read a Bible. It became possible for more people to have books to learn to read to interpret the Bible, themselves, but there was a second book I saw that was in some ways more poignant still. It was written 150 years later in the year 1600. It was a collection of volume of letters written by Galileo to the pope to protest his innocence.
And as I flipped through the pages what one saw was that each day Galileo had used his telescope, and had sketched on a piece of paper, the position of the sun sunspots, and you can flip through the pages and what you saw was that the sunspots were moving and hence the sun was rotating. It's how Galileo made the case in part for his innocence.
But his story in many ways was almost the opposite of Gutenberg Gutenberg had a story of how technology had spread religion. Galileo had a story about how technology had collided with it.
And what it really causes one to appreciate is that every new technology has these ripple effects that impact every part of society, including religion, philosophy, politics and economics.
Yeah, we have not a telescope or a printing press. But AI. It's interesting to remember that AI, while it's all the talk and 2019 first became part of the conversation in 1956. That was the first time that academics and researchers came together at Dartmouth College, and started to talk about it and coined the phrase.
But even this was six years after in some ways. The first science fiction account of what AI might turn out to mean for people, because it was six years earlier that Isaac Asimov wrote his book run around. It included a short story about the three laws of robotics laws that were designed to be ethical principles to govern how machines would make decisions on themselves by themselves. If you happen to see the 2004 movie starring Will Smith called iRobot, you would remember that it didn't go so well.
But you didn't have to start going to the movies in 2004 to think about AI and how decisions might be made by machines. If you had gone to a movie theater in 1968, you would have seen Stanley Kubrick's film 2001 A Space Odyssey, where astronauts were orbiting Jupiter, and we're finding that an AI driven computer was not all together enthusiastic about letting them back into the spacecraft, a scene that you can see here.
Oh,
hi Rachel
pod bay doors how.
I'm sorry, Dave. I'm afraid I can't do that.
What's the problem.
I think you know what the problem is just as well as it. What are you talking about this mission is too important for me to allow you to jeopardize it.
Think of all the movies you've seen that actually have had a common plot is called humans invent machines that can make decisions for themselves. Machines make decisions for themselves. Machines stop listening to humans machines start enslaving humans, or even killing them. That's basically every Terminator movie you've ever seen.
That is what the public has grown up thinking about AI, but it raises a very important question. One that should speak to us one that is in some ways a fundamental question of our times. We shouldn't just ask what computers can do.
We need to ask what they should do.
And we need to think hard, because we are the first generation in the history of humanity, all of us alive today in this room today.
Who will empower machines to make decisions that previously were made only by people. If we get it wrong.
Every generation that follows us will pay a price. That's why it's so important that it Microsoft and IT companies across our industry. We're focused on issues of ethics and AI defining and implementing ethical principles. It's a good example of the kinds of conversations we need to have. But I think we've also reached a point where we need to step back and recognize that in addition to asking ourselves new questions. We need a fundamentally new approach to address the issues that technology is creating for society.
More than ever we can't just think about the exciting things that a computer can do. We need to step up. We need to put guardrails on the technology we're creating to protect against their abuse or their misuse or their unintended consequences. And we need to work more with governments because we need governments to move faster, perhaps as much as anything else as exciting as it is to think about technology to come to web summit and think about building a business.
I believe we will always serve ourselves best. If we put the public first. The truth is we work in an industry that has enormous potential for profit.
If we can do a great job of thinking about the public interest first. If we can serve the public. There will be plenty of opportunity for profit.
But we need to think broadly about what it means to serve the public and as we do. I think we need to think about the future but also learn the lessons of the past.
There's a saying that says history doesn't repeat itself, but it often rhymes. And I think it does. And that's a powerful tool, and we can apply the tests and lessons of history. By learning from some of the people who experienced it. For me, one person I had the opportunity to meet speaks to me every day in terms of what it means to create technology. His name is Hans Yoakam Sheckler. He lives in Berlin.
When he was 24, years old in the year 1968, he spent seven months in this prison in East Berlin. He was in this prison because that week. There were tanks rolling through Prague, bringing the Prague Spring to an end.
He was in prison because he had three of his friends were unhappy to see those tanks bring the Prague Spring to an end. They wrote up little leaflets and they handed them out in the street where they were spotted by agents for the Staci.
And they were arrested and sent away.
But think about the world today. When people want to change the world when they want to communicate when they with the world when they want to organize with their friends. They no longer hand out a leaflet.
They post a text, they send an email they post a blog.
It shows how fundamentally important it is for all of us to protect privacy, a fundamental human right. In an era where everything has gone digital its wide part of what it will take in the 2020s, is to address a new generation of challenges that will be fundamental to protecting these timeless values. It's why I believe will not only need a new wave of technology, but a new wave of privacy protection as well. A new wave of security protection, a new wave of measures to protect the ethics and human rights associated with AI.
And if we're going to think as broadly as the public expects I think we also need to recognize that as technology moves forward. We need to stop leaving people behind in country after country you see the same thing in the United States there are more than 20 million Americans that lack access to broadband. It's not a phenomenon that is unique to the United States.
You see it in a country like Ireland, the birthplace of the web summit in Ireland. There are more than a billion people who lack access to broadband. We still have half the world almost that doesn't connect to the internet at all. And we need to recognize that with our broadband, a community cannot attract jobs that cannot persuade a business to open a new factory. It cannot be at the frontiers of education or medicine, the world today requires that we broaden the reach of technology to move everyone forward.
We need to find inspiration from the past because we need to remember that a century ago the world face similar challenges, and it conquered them in the United States and took the leadership of a woman. A woman named Luisa and may Maher who worked with the rural electrification administration to go out and visit rural community after rural community and persuade people to get the most out of electricity. It took a government initiative in partnership with the private sector to bring electricity to every corner of America to every community in Ireland to most of the countries of the world. The world has acted with high ambition before and we need to sustain that commitment to ambition today. And here too. I think that there is inspiration all around us.
This is where technology is a great tool. Every day one of the people I can find inspiration from is somebody I get to work with. Her name is Hanna Taylor. She works at Microsoft.
When she was a student at the Kentucky School for the Blind. She began to develop an interest in computer science she wanted to learn how to code.
And although she was blind. She found her way to a local public school where she had the opportunity to learn that put her on the path towards a degree in computer science to a career in computing, to a hackathon to create an application that works on your phone, that enables a blind person to see through the camera and be informed by a AEye connected to the cloud of what is going on in the world around them. And what we've seen with our API for good initiative at Microsoft, is that in fact AI is in some ways, one of the most powerful tools we have to advance accessibility to address the sustainability challenges for the planet to strengthen the people who are providing humanitarian relief around the world to those as well. Who are preserving the world's cultural heritage. In short, we need to address our problems head on but also show that we are committed to using technology to help solve the world's big problems.
And this brings me to the last person who I think brings inspiration to us all. His name is Nick wise, he lives in the United Kingdom, he's focused on a problem that affects every one of us here today.
The issues of overfishing and sustainability for the world's oceans.
Nick recognized that this was a problem that technology could help solve. He created a nonprofit, to help solve it. You can see in this video, a little bit about his story. A story that I think in some ways connects to each of our stories, as well.
There are key parts of the ocean ecosystem that are important for all life to survive the creation of oxygen, the creation of bio mass and the creation of therefore food is important to everything on the planet, protecting them is vitally important to our future.
When I say all of this beauty. It's just hard to believe that the biodiversity of the oceans are at risk. Because humans have ever fished humanity has pushed 90% of our fish stocks either to the maximum sustainable yield or beyond Costa Rica is 92% oceans, and that's the part that we are least protecting or investigating. And that's why also illegal fishery is having an impact in our oceans and in our economy, and in our environment. That's why we're taking action technologies key and ocean mind, we receive billions of data points satellite images optical imagery radar imagery infrared data, Microsoft AI, and filters through all of the data that we have to understand phishing activities, we find the suspicious activities, so that our analysts can look and investigated and governments can enforce more effectively. Now we have data, we can identify patterns of illegal fishery and support the Coast Guard but also the fishery of Dorothee and environmental authority, we have more robust instrument to accomplish our mission. Information is key. Knowledge is key, experiences, and sharing them is key. We are creating a culture. We are making our first API available through Microsoft AI to anyone who wants to help fight illegal fishing.
So these are the illegal fishing nets that have been captured by the Coast Guard, just over the last three weeks. The time for taking care of the oceans is now we want to work with the people to understand the importance of conservation. If we are protecting one area is because we want to have more fish is because we need to have healthy oceans to protect us against some of the new one very important impacts from climate change as well. It's time for us to think outside the box and actually use more technology to help us. We have the capability to to change the needle on the sustainability of fishing. I am convinced that we will make a difference.
Please join me in welcoming and Fang King, Nick wise.
I think his story is for a lot of you your story, because a year ago at web summit ocean mind was all of four months old. It had nine employees. A year later, it has doubled in size it is working with governments around the world, but I think most importantly, it's using the power of AI and harnessing the world's data with a vision that I believe will become real. So that by next year when the web summit takes place again.
ocean mine will be actually using all of the world's data about vessels on the seas, analyzing them in real time sharing them with governments and helping the world's governments, in fact, improve the sustainability of the world's oceans. It shows what technology can do.
But I think it shows one thing more. It shows that in fact we each have a role to play. Whether you're an older company or a newer one whether you're a startup or a company as big as Microsoft, whether you're a for profit in our enterprise or a nonprofit, like ocean mind whether you come from civil society or from government whether you're from Europe or from somewhere else around the world. The truth is, if we're going to address the great problems that the world has put in front of us, if we're going to ensure that technology plays its role in a responsible way.
We each need to play our role. And we each need to work together. That's what the web summit is all about. That's what the first decade of the web summit has helped accomplish. That is our challenge. It's our opportunity for the decade ahead. Thank you very much.
Technology and globalization have always gone, hand in hand. As technology has evolved the world has evolved, the world has shrunk. But many people have been left behind is tech able to fulfill its promise, or has it created a new disparity. Please put your hands together for hadas gold of CNN, Congressman, for Silicon Valley. Ro Khanna, and former prime minister of United Kingdom. Tony Blair.
Hello everybody. Wow, it is so amazing to see all of you out here and talk about an all star panel I feel incredibly lucky to be sitting here and all of you incredibly lucky to be sitting there. So I want to jump right into this because obviously we don't introduce our guests or give a biography, but I would say if the relationship between the public politics and technology, we're on a bell curve and the bell curve was tension, we're pretty much I feel like reaching the top what started with a flirtation evolved into a love affair, and now people are need of some couples counseling, I think. So to start off with Tony ro, who is being left behind.
festival, that's thank you very much for having me here. It's a great pleasure to be with ro as well, whose work I admire greatly. And the people being left behind the the people who don't understand how technology is changing the world, who feel that the force of globalization is passing them by. And the big challenge what my Institute works on and my fascination today is how do you get the people who are making the changes in the world the change makers are represented here today. How do you get the change makers and the policymakers together because technology will change the world, but we have to work out the ways that it changes it fairly and the ways that we make sure that there's access to this new world for those that otherwise aren't going to be left behind communities or or people. Now, I think what's interesting for me is coming from my background at my age group, I mean I should say that this wouldn't apply to you. But to me, my children, tell me that I should never talk about technology in public.
Because they say they have vast accumulated evidence that I don't understand it. But what I do understand is that this is a technological revolution we're living in the 21st century equivalent of the Industrial Revolution. And when you look at the Industrial Revolution politics took decades to catch up with the impact. And I want to shorten that curve today. So I want the policymakers and the change makers to realize they've got a common interest in accessing the benefits of the technology mitigating its downside effects and making sure we can use technology to make the world a better place. That's my, basically. Ro you literally represent these companies and you are a policy maker right now. Do you think that these companies, recognize that people are being left behind and are they doing enough to try and bridge that gap between the haves and the understands and the have nots. What else Thank you for having me. It's a great honor to be here with Prime Minister Blair, I would say, and people in Silicon Valley believe that Prime Minister Blair more than perhaps any world leader understands the consequences and promises of the technology revolution. The reality is that technology has enriched our lives in so many ways in enhancing communication, enhancing the promise of medicine, enhancing the possibility of information. And yet that innovation and wealth has been concentrated in a few areas, and people in Silicon Valley are increasingly aware that many have been left out in rural America in minority communities. And the challenge for us is how to make sure that the modern jobs the new industries are spread to those areas so that they have an opportunity to diversify in those communities, our country will fall apart, if we don't integrate and provide those opportunities to these places that have been left out. Put simply, no child should be forced to leave their hometown, simply to get a good job, and I think there's an increasing awareness of that in Silicon Valley, something really interesting that happened this week was Apple announced $2.5 billion in pretty much financial aid to help address the housing crisis in California. Do you see this as a good thing for your region. Absolutely. I mean, the, you can't afford to buy a house in my district, or, you know, $3,000, a month is basic rent and most of the cities. So Apple one bedroom one bedroom for one for one bedroom so apple and Tim Cook is very passionate about making sure we have more affordable housing, there's two things I'd say about that though this is why there's an economic incentive for technology companies to spread. When you look at the increased wages in our area and the increased housing prices. It makes sense for them to look for talent in West Virginia and Iowa and South Carolina, from an economic perspective. Second, private sector can't solve this alone you need policies that are going to encourage more dense housing near public transportation. Is that realistic to think that tech could be spread out around the country around the region we've seen that also happen the United Kingdom more media and tech companies are trying to encourage jobs in other cities, is that realistic can that happen or just the government does government need to put a hand in there and force it to happen. Yeah, the government's going to be active.
But of course it can happen and it's got to happen in, in the end, but you see, if you take virtually what.
When I left office.
You would have the debate around policy and you debate health care, education transport law and order. You know how does government reform and then there would be a debate about technology today.
The question of technology should run throughout government. My view is you need to reorder politics around handling this technological revolution. It should become central to the political debate. And the problem is the politicians will feel comfortable for example with how you the questions around regulating big tech, okay because that's familiar to them. But what they're not familiar with is how do you use technology to revolutionize healthcare to revolutionize the way we educate my Institute does programs all over Africa, right, the road the possibilities for technology today to help those countries bypass the legacy systems of the West, and accelerate their economic and social development. How do we manage to do that how do we take the energy of the people here, and engage in a constructive way, so the things that they're inventing, and the things that they're doing are allowed to change the way society works the economy works and even politics works. So, the problem today is that you've got a real world revolution in this room, and then you got politics in the other room, and the question is how you put that together, and you know look. Obviously with my country at the moment we have a few distractions.
And one of the, what I will say to people in Britain is, you know, the tragedy of Brexit, to which I am completely and wholly opposed is the distraction from dealing with the big challenges, but actually all over the Western world today. You can see governments, focusing the political debate on the left often attacking business on the right, attacking immigrants, when this technological question is the question we should be focusing on and everything else frankly is a distraction right now is one of the answers to that having a chief Chief Technology Officer essentially cabinet position for example the UK or a CTO and the American government. I think it has to go beyond that, I mean of course the chief technology officer would help but I think what the Prime Minister is saying is that we are fundamentally having a technology revolution, similar to the Industrial Revolution. When we debated that Donald Trump's tax cuts in Congress, and I was opposed to them, but you literally if you watch that debate wouldn't know whether that debate was taking place in 2017, or 1980, the democrats were making the same arguments and Republicans were making the same arguments as they would have made in 1980, and no one was talking about how are we going to create new jobs and given the technology revolution, what are we going to do to make sure there's not geographic inequality. What are we going to do to have full regulation so democracy is enhanced not not undermined based on these new platforms. So my view is that the central question of governance is how are we going to have thoughtful economic policy thoughtful regulation to deal with the technology revolution, and that's sorely missing in in Congress that holistic perspective, 21 said that most politicians want to do the right thing they just have a very limited knowledge of how the world is changing. So do you trust the politicians who say they want to regulate big tech.
Well I think they're writing their instinct, but the question is to get the regulation right and you know the truth is this the big tech is developed in a way where these companies have enormous power enormous reach and so inevitable there's going to be a desire to regulate them but you've got to get the regulation right and you know I think these companies are almost akin to public utilities, but you don't want to regulate them in the way you would have regulated public utilities half a century ago. So this is, it's all about, you know, the more that politicians understand the world of technology, the more they're willing to part that with the world of technology, the more likely they are to get it right. When you politicians a very simple people, you know, what they don't understand they don't like and what they don't like they will regulate but often badly.
So what is necessary, is to get that engagement between the world of technology in the world of politics and that's the central thing that has to happen. Now, there will be huge questions around the power of these companies, because they're changing the world, and obviously if you take many of these companies they're having an impact on our society and the D Don our politics, which is bound to be subject to public interest regulation, but you need to get it right. And you need to, to understand that in the end.
You can't just, you know, regulate by reacting to individual stories, you've got to take a step back and say right. What is the power of these companies, how are they changing the world and how does the public interests of alongside that. But that's impossible to do unless unless you understand it properly. The only thing other thing I'd say however is that, I think there is a risk that the whole debate about technology comes to a debate about big tech. Right. technologies is more than about big tech. It's about all those companies that are being created now that are doing new things that are innovating.
We need that energy to be in the political room as well. And I understand because you talk to a lot of people in the technology sector. My oldest son is actually in the sector him himself. You know, a lot of the time these guys want to be far away from government as possible. I understand that, but it's necessary for the politicians to understand the world, in order that they make the right policy. And this dislocation between the revolution that's happening on the ground, and the political debate is is worrying and it's dangerous, and it's dangerous also because one of the other aspects, is the geopolitics is changing as well, because with China and the power of China, especially in relation to technology, we have to work out okay here in position to that as well. So, every time you come back and you look at the world today. You see this is the central challenge. And yet, as ro was just saying it's exactly the same election going on in Britain at the moment. But this is an election carried on in a way that was not dissimilar to the debate I had when I came into parliament in 1983. Now, the world of 2019 is a bit different, but it's not impacting the political debate, and that's the problem. Do you agree with the Facebook policy of allowing politicians to essentially lie in their paid advertisements, I don't. And I think there is a solution to it you could create a dangerous to answer that one. Yes.
Yeah.
violation so there's no reason you can't have an independent regulatory agency that says if an ad is blatantly false, then Facebook should be given notification to remove it. And the problem with ads that are false I mean we've all had ads run against us on TV that are false. The problem though is social media is it becomes viral it's not just the two weeks on TV, it becomes viral and takes on a life of its own. So there's important need to regulate it. The challenge has been look at the pace of change technologically when Prime Minister Blair left office Facebook may have had when a few hundred thousand people today it's 2 billion people, bigger than China bigger than any country in the world, and the regulatory knowledge has not kept pace. When Sundar Pichai of Google was in front of Congress you literally had a member of Congress, hold up their iPhone and ask Sonder whether he could track the iPhone, and Sonder was patiently explaining that Apple made the iPhone not Google. At this point the member of congress says well if I move 10 feet away. Will you be able to track me, and somebody says well it depends what apps you have on your phone, and the member of congress says Don't lie to me I don't care what you're saying. I don't know what apps are Tell me if you can regulate me or tell me if you can track me. So, there is a lack of understanding about technology. We don't need computer scientists we need people who basically have a curiosity about what's happening in the world, and are up to the challenge of having thoughtful regulations for technology. The final point where I, When I agree with Prime Minister Blair is that it's not just about well crafted regulations and privacy or political ads. It's about people's aspirations, a lot of people feel that their kids may not have as good a shot at the American dream or as economic opportunity, because they don't know if they're going to have a shot at the jobs of the future, they want these jobs, they don't want to have their kids leave their hometowns, to be able to participate in the 21st century economy. And that's the central challenge in my view for Silicon Valley, how do we create that economic opportunity in places that have felt left out. We've, we talked about people being left behind, but now we're essentially it seems in a new era where certain countries are creating their own internet so you'd mentioned China. But Russia recently passed a law that will essentially allow them to create their own internet their sovereign internet is that dangerous. And if it is, what is a way to get past that so that we don't have essentially an iron curtain on the web.
Well I think it's difficult, because I think this will arise, particularly in relation to our attitude to China, where there is again a big debate but I think it's still at a pretty niche level in in western politics, which is around this concept of Do you decouple from China or do you do you try and have some form of competitive cooperation, or cooperative competition.
I think this is really difficult, but what I would like to suggest is.
This is one area where America in Europe should be looking to work together. I mean I think one big project for the transatlantic Alliance, which still means something to me because the values that bind America in Europe together are strong and important and we're both in the end, whatever the temporary issues around our politics we're, we're defenders of liberal democracy or we're based on concepts of liberal democracy. I think one thing that will be really good is for America and Europe to work out how they actually cooperate in the technological sphere, and how they make sure that in respect of China and as China rises they take a common position, because you know this is, this is the next stages of development, particularly around AI will impact the world enormously. I mean, I want these next innovations to be innovations that are done by people who are subject to at least some form of regulatory framework and concepts around the values we believe in. So this is a big, you know, a big part of what we should be looking at today. And, you know, this again is where the current state of Western politics is, is, is depressing. Frankly, because, you know, I don't know what atmosphere when I ever I go in different parts of the world today. This kind of competition between politicians as to who's politics is crazier.
Right now I think we're well ahead by the way, I think we're right at the top there. I think in fact we've knocked the competition out of the park on this one. But at some point when all of that clears. What are we going to be left with. And if we're right in saying that this technology revolution is the central question. This should be something where America and Europe are cooperating together and I don't see that happening yet we're still our own relationship is becoming transactional when it shouldn't be it should actually be rooted in the values that bind the Western world together.
It's very important that the values we have drive technology and not think the other way around that technology is somehow going to shape values and our values of Europe and the United States is for liberal pluralistic democracy that recognizes speech, that's very different than some of the values that China has had. And so my view is it's important for the United States and Europe to be engaged in helping define the regulations for the internet, I regret that the United States hasn't been able to participate as much in the conversation because our Congress has not had a privacy framework, we haven't had an antitrust framework, frankly I think there's been too much of a deferral on the regulatory framework to Europe, and whether you agree or disagree with the European Framework I think it would be helpful for a competition of ideas, and the United States should engage in that we should have in our own privacy framework we should have our own antitrust framework, and then we can engage with European counterparts in defining that. The other thing I would say about China, the most important thing for the United States and Europe is to win the technology race, we can afford to lose in artificial intelligence in quantum computing in biotechnology we need to make those fundamental investments and be in the lead and make sure China is more dependent on our technology than vice versa. We hear from some politicians that the answer to a lot of these questions is break up big tech. Should we do that.
Well, that there needs to be more, I think, thinking about what the consequence, and outcome is what I would say is What you don't want is anti competitive platforms and you need to regulate technology so that they can't be anti competitive and so that they can't just gobble up competition. Let me give you a concrete example, there was a small business in Michigan. They wanted to sell t shirts, they couldn't start a brick and mortar store so Amazon did some ads, they allow the business to succeed. That's a good thing, then Amazon started copying those t shirts and selling it online and undercut the business so I would say what what's relevant is make sure that Amazon can't do that on their platforms that they can't advantage their own products, make sure that Facebook. Their scrutiny if they're going to acquire Instagram or or copy Snapchat, but just saying let's break things up I don't think is solving the issue of jobs or privacy. It has to be more nuanced and and real thinking needs to go into what the right solution is Tony yesterday, or Monday Edward Snowden called GDPR a paper tiger, and that it's pretty much not working, do you think GDPR the data privacy protection is a good step forward. Yeah, no, you're gonna you're gonna need that data privacy protection and no i think that there's an ongoing debate about GDPR but I think Europeans would regard themselves as pretty much at the forefront of how regulation happens mean, to my mind, what is important is, as we look at regulation to create systems of regulation that are much more flexible and less bureaucratic than the past because the system. The technology is evolving so fast in if you apply the old systems of regulation they don't really work either. And that's why my Institute just published a paper recently suggesting you need to a different type of regulator, and you need a different expertise within those systems of regulation. So, you know, I think the debate around the system that Europe Scott will continue. I guess my, my thing is more to say how the how to America and Europe, actually align on this, because this would be, I think, to the benefit of both instantly, I don't, I don't believe the thing that is really holding European take back, is to do with regulation I think it's much more to do with the way we allow companies to grow a lot, the way we stimulate business, I think their whole series of things that we could be doing in Europe, that would allow our tech sector to become much more important, much more visible much more powerful, and I want to go back to something that Prime Minister said earlier that the conversation is bigger than just GDPR or regulation or privacy, a lot of times when people talk about technology that's the first question they ask, but to me it's something more fundamental our politics are either about restoration of the past, or an embrace of the future, at a very simple level, Donald Trump is saying let's go back to the past. Let's go back to the way life used to be. And if you believe as I do in a multicultural democracy, and that is a future for America if you believe that we want to have multilateral institutions and move the world in that direction. You have to convince people that technology in the future is going to be a force for good in their lives, not a force of disruption, that to me is the central challenge for modern politics. Yep. And before we leave I do want to sneak in a couple political questions. The first one will be pretty general though, do you think that tech will be a major topic in the 2020 election, Congressman, not a big enough topic, I mean I really think that the question of, jobs a new industry of how we're going to give people a place in this new economy while recognizing their rootedness should be a central question and it. The only question that comes up is sort of okay how do you go after big tech and I think that has a place, but I think there is an insufficient recognition of the technology revolution globalization and how we adapt the entire philosophic system or the entire economic ideology to address that and Prime Minister. Are you going to vote labour this election.
Yeah, I've said I will vote labour I've been a member of the Labour Party for 45 years I was the leader for 13 I was the longest serving labour Prime Minister, doesn't mean to say I agree with the direction of the president Labour Party because I don't frankly, but for me and don't ask me what's going to happen this election because I don't know.
But for me the single most important thing is for the type of politics that I represent which is on the progressive center left side is for us to take this technological revolution and weave it into a narrative of optimism about the future. Because in the end the populism, whether it's the election of Donald Trump in the US Brexit in the UK. You look at European politics, the same strands of of populism left and right, actually, that are occurring populism exploits pessimism. Okay, when people are pessimistic about the future. They look for people to blame. If you're optimistic about the future, you're looking for the opportunities. And I'm actually optimistic about the future, because I think this technology revolution will yield enormous benefits if we manage it correctly, but we need to manage it, we need to handle it. We need to think imaginatively about it. But this is why, for me, the key to defeating the populism is around this technology question, because when I look at the constituents I used to represent in the north of England, in respect of healthcare I can see how much you can change their lives in respect of education I can see how much you can change their lives in respective transport even law and order, I can think of whole ways we can reimagine the welfare system the pension system through the use of technology, I can see government, having a completely different interaction with the citizen as a result of technology, I can see for example how an electronic and biometric identity can allow us to resolve some of the challenges around immigration. So, in each of these areas. I see technology as the way, if we don't just let it happen but if we applied values and reason and rational analysis and good policymaking. I can see how this technological revolution, can be turned into that narrative of optimism. And if you look back to the 19th century. It's amazing how the conversation between politicians at the time and the 1820s and 1830s carried on in the old way, when it was obvious the world was being revolutionized around them, and then later in the century politics caught up. I want to see politics catch up now. I want to see a whole new relationship between the world of politics and the world of technology, and I believe, ultimately, the answer to these populist challenges, and to the rehabilitation of the West as a place of values and decency and good politics and the future lies in the cooperation between technology and the world of policymakers, and that's what we're trying to do, and in the last five seconds with labor do better without Jeremy Corbyn his leader.
So he's such a rough question to ask me. I mean there was I can be this stirring speech about technology and how it's changing the world and you just asked me that type of question which is not really a question I should answer. On a lighter note I will say, a positive aspect of.
So, on a lighter note I'll tell you I someone on Twitter, sent me, Boris Johnson's Diwali greetings saying, Boris Constance Diwali greetings were much better than my own. He may not do Brexit right but he gets the volley right but I thought to myself look at what an interesting world. The grand son of a Indian freedom fighter, my grandfather fought with Gandhi for four years, born in America, the British Prime Minister giving the valley greetings and all of this communication happening on the internet platforms, there's a lot of hope, about what can happen, it's a, it's a great thing. And by the way we really good have Burress from now on sticks to Diwali flash drive that's all the time we have. Thank you very much thank you to our esteemed guests and enjoy the rest of your conference.
In the first half of this year, venture capitalist has spent $66. billion.
Purchasing equity in promising startups. According to the latest data from pitch book. At this pace VC spending this year, could surpass 100 billion dollars for the second year in a row. That's a lot of venture capitalists, how many startups are right around me right now.
You start up, how do you start up, who's raising money for a startup around me.
Nobody interesting, because this panel is going to be all about venture capitalists so I want all the students in the audience to keep their eyes on the speakers on this next panel because if you see them walking around Lisbon, you're going to want to pitch them as soon as you can.
So the three world's leading VCs who have invested in companies such as Epic Games, Spotify, and element AI are on stage to discuss what investment trends, we can expect for the next 12 months. Please welcome to the stage. CHIEF FINANCIAL correspondent of Axios Felix salmon party organ Parson of Northzone. Bradley to heck of lightspeed Venture Partners and M 12 Rashmi Gopinath Tom.
Tony Blair Welcome back.
This is we've given up on on politics at this point we're just going to talk about venture capital. And if any of you guys want to start raising some money these guys have a few billion dollars for you. They just come up afterwards say Hi, can I have a billion dollars so they will write a check on the spot. But let's. Why don't we introduce ourselves first p org and you can start. Where are you based and especially like, how many European companies are you going to invest in over the next year. Yes, I'm, I'm PJ I'm based in Stockholm, our firm has offices in Stockholm Oslo. London and New York City and we invest in about 15 early stage companies and we actually invest in, and an additional 50 and really seed companies, per year. So, we'll, we'll probably put about 70% of them into the European market.
Brad, I'm Brad to Eich. I'm a partner at lightspeed I co lead our growth fund will invest between five and 10 companies in Europe in the next 12 months and the past 12 months it's been about five, so that what we're mainly focused on from your perspective and how much you giving those companies on average growth investments will be anywhere between 25 and $100 million dollars and 21 investment for us.
Wherever of Rashmi Earlybird smaller than there. Hi everyone I'm Rashmi Gopinath I'm a managing director at m 12, where Microsoft venture fund, we invest globally. Average on a year we're doing anywhere between 20 to 25 deals 10% of 10 to 20% of which are typically done out of Europe and Israel. So that means we'll be doing anywhere between three to six deals here, and how big of those deals on average series A through C is what we do, deploying a check size between two to $10 million dollars per deal.
So let's start with the trends are there any, like, big theses that your overarching theme for your light bought into and trying to invest in Rashmi sure so enterprises what we do, and within the b2b sector we look at any investments in cloud infrastructure cyber AI DevOps open source as I would say some of the key trends that we're pretty excited about for 2020 fall into three broader categories. One is around the automation that AI and machine learning brings and the majority of the technologies, moving from the humans supported machine lead into being more of the human governed machine lead and ultimately into machine led governed and operated on says those technologies start maturing and there is more decision making that's done by the machine and less augmentation by the human that becomes interesting. The second areas falls within the cyberspace on data privacy data security data sharing, and also encompasses the defects and the disinformation space is fairly interesting. And then the last one is on the democratization of applications and falls on the entire spectrum from software development to how applications get rolled out and falls into this whole low code node category of how do you open up the software development ecosystem to a broader category of folks that do not necessarily have that engineering background, to be able to put together applications across the enterprise.
So wait, did you think the fix, if you work out way of like solving that problem. We're looking to fund companies that have a way to solve that problem.
Brad you have any like big, big trend theses yeah sure so in terms of lightspeed we invest in both consumer and enterprise software businesses, about two thirds of our practice will be enterprise software, I'd say 10 years ago Europe on the enterprise side was relatively nascent, there weren't that many companies at scale. And a lot of the initial growth came from the consumer side of the market you saw outcomes like delivery heroes along those Spotify takeaway etc These multi billion dollar Farfetch these multi billion dollar outcomes. And now what I think we're seeing is a lot of enterprise software companies being built by the teams that were behind those businesses they ran into the challenges at scale that a lot of the consumer businesses had and then applied kind of their software learnings to now going and building other types of businesses. So last investment we made out of a Swedish founded businesses and a company called Groupon in the DevOps space.
And that was an investment we led about a month and a half ago.
So we're starting to see that trend in enterprise software and those people those founders used to have like a consumer facing company and now they're switching. Yeah, not, not just they had consumer companies before but maybe they worked at, or had friends who worked at those businesses who had challenges in those broader spaces, and so they may have been a DevOps person who'd been a consultant to those companies and are now seeing a broader need base than just a hyper at scale. Kind of consumer businesses that are out there, Peter you you're almost entirely consumer facing investments right, that's me personally, but the firm. We have a lot broader mandate than that and quite a few of our partners are really going all in on the enterprise and b2b opportunities and. And as a matter of fact, the sauce opportunities in Europe are are abundant and, and I think that is probably one of the most important observations in the market right now that you have the ability to to package and value chains, with new business models that the existing you know big industry players are not able to meet or to compete against and I think that that goes into so many relevant industries that are facing that kind of opportunity and, and on Finn on the FinTech side which is a tremendously attractive area of to invest in the across Europe and and the the European financial institutions and the financial structure is actually very well equipped to to work with startups and, for instance, we invested in a company called True layer, which is a basically a layer that enables banking to happen outside of the bank, and without being hamstrung by, by, by banking regulation but with all the security and all the, all the compliance that is associated with safe banking. So, so we think that there that that part is extremely interesting going forward. Also, the idea being the smaller dedicated companies can be a little bit nimbler they don't have the legacy problems associated with being huge. So Rashmi ox and Microsoft, it's hard to come up with a bigger, more legacy, do you be also investing in these nimbler startups Do you see that everyday, do you see in your portfolio companies them doing things that Microsoft wouldn't be able to do.
So the way we think about the premise of why m 12 was set up in the first place was primarily to kind of be those signal sensors in the startup ecosystem and bring back the intelligence on where are the disruptions happening, what are the key innovation trends happening and educate our product leaders on what's going on with the ultimate goal of forming some sort of meaningful partnership with these portfolio companies and go to market together with some solutions that address the broader need for customers. Microsoft obviously has a fantastic portfolio in the infrastructure space in the productivity space and in the collaboration space. And these startups offer a lot of, I would say contextual information about industries or verticals that they provide solutions in which creates this comprehensive solution that very impactful and meaningful he addresses, what the customer needs are. And there's tremendous opportunity for us to partner together and go to market together with these companies, read. We hear a lot around these kinds of conferences about disruption, and in order to have disruption you need companies that get disrupted if you're in this enterprise software world. I mean, would you consider Microsoft or any of the other big giants to be the sort of target companies to be disrupted.
I actually think they've been a facilitator of disruption, which is an interesting kind of take on the matter in the in the sense that they're all building these cloud infrastructures, kind of this base layer that allows for a lot of the enterprise software to be built on top of and one of the things that Microsoft has done is partnered with and invested in a lot of those businesses to help build that entire as your platform. Same thing with AWS. And same thing with GCP. And so we're actually generally viewing those larger businesses as facilitators of smaller companies being able to get to scale with much less capital because you're not building a large server infrastructure of a large cloud infrastructure necessary to do some of the more disruptive things in the market, like running large AI, machine learning neural networks those things that take huge compute power where you may have to spin up a whole grouping of servers and cores for a short period of time to train a model like that so they, they're both being disrupted and as well as facilitating the ability for entrepreneurs to find gaps and opportunities in the market. Pitch hey you're the only person on the panel hasn't talked about AI is every company in a company these days so is that just yeah I think AI is, is sort of enabling thing that happens in the background and and i will see see it, like as it's a level of abstraction that you can abstract away some stuff that's that's tedious.
Not particularly productive work, so I don't see it as a specific investment theme as such, unless it really changes the customer experience or the the productivity of that, that thing so so we we basically have that as an integral part of pretty much all our investment decisions that there has to be a defensible differentiated product that is in the market and most of the time that involves some sort of AI, but there was also a lot of misconceptions about what AI is you know the know you slam an AI label on stuff that is really basically just you know historical thinking yeah I would echo that. I don't think we're looking for AI companies I think we're looking for companies who can apply AI and intelligent ways to address a problem to automate repetitive tasks that maybe somebody would have been doing in the past and ultimately then allowing companies to drive better margins better customer service better user experience, because of the application thereof, and the AI that you think is often there's not as they're just buying sort of off the shelf from the big legacy cloud providers, or there's, like, open source protocols that they're using on top of those cloud solutions in order to do so, so Rashmi how do you how do your companies differentiate themselves when everything is commodities like that.
So I would say that the underlying AI models that all the big companies provide like Microsoft and Google and others have I would say some base level differentiation in terms of what we could do better. And that ties back into again some of the core efficiencies of what the company has to offer. So TensorFlow may be well known for doing a certain kind of workload Cortana is really well known for doing a certain kind of workload. So the goal is developers have the opportunity to pick best of breed based on what applications they're looking to build on it provides more options and avoids the vendor lock situation for developers to choose between different AI based level algorithms that each company has to offer. And those developers and increasingly anywhere right i mean you just opened an office in India, and Brad you're just moving. How you just hired someone in London. Yeah, we added a partner to the team who's based out of London, an individual by the name of Rita's Klaus guess who'd been both an entrepreneur and an investor prior to come into lightspeed so we do have an office in London now PJ does the big guys coming into Europe. Yeah, you're worried, you know, I think that's, it's actually pretty good news for the European ecosystem because we're. It's not that we are over funded, we have tremendous entrepreneurial talent. We need also players in all stages and Brad for instances, representing predominantly a later stage, opportunity which is actually a gap in the market still and and i think you with the, the connection you have to Microsoft, you know, we need to be better connected to the big platform companies in order to build really true scale and build into their infrastructures as well. We believe that the differentiation that we get in diversifying our portfolio across different geographies is a huge plus, with the boundary is getting shorter everywhere we have companies and us that actively sell into Asia we have companies in Europe that sell into the US markets. It's harder to classify where exactly a company belongs to because the market is increasingly global, and we want to find the best companies, no matter where they come from. Bradley said true, I mean I hear a lot about rising nationalism and barriers and trade wars it's like people talk about things becoming increasingly global but like to finish us all we really are is that actually not true. Yeah. I think the really great venture firms. And we're here with two of them focus more on building really great companies with the other shareholders that are involved in that business and so I think we view ourselves more as like Co Op petition as opposed to people who directly compete with one another so like will often go and be very interested in the same categories but as we're investing into those companies at different stages. We're all just trying to help the entrepreneurs think through that portion of scaling that portion of realizing a large outcome for the business for the shareholders and stakeholders. And so we largely like as we come into Europe are looking to partner with the venture firms in the market.
Not necessarily compete with them. Well, I'll be sure to introduce you, in a XHPJ Brad Rashmi Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.
Alright, I'm very excited for the next speaker Fink has next speaker co founded a company that has created many worlds and fantasies that everyone here has experienced and loved. hu solid ventures endgame right best movie ever. He transformed Marc rafal into the Hulk. He also reimagined Disney's classic Jungle Book, and they all leverage the most cutting edge and sophisticated technology help the best storytellers in the world, bring their visions to life. Please welcome to the stage the co founder of BAFTA and Academy Award winning studio Framestore Mike McGee.
Hello everyone.
Today I'm going to share some insights into the creative and technical worlds of visual effects. I was looking at one show that maybe I could take apart for you to show you the behind the scenes, but because we make over 20 feature films every year. I thought I'd broaden the scope, a bit wider.
The opening. Slide I'm using is from a BBC series that we made back in the 90s it was a documentary called Walking with Dinosaurs had over three hours worth of photo real dinosaurs and was really for us, a changing time of visual effects, where creatures could look photo real on the screen. Now we've been pushing the boundaries of visual effects and making impossible stories, ever since. So today, with the, with the use of some exciting visuals, I'm going to take you through the story of visual effects.
We are always trying to find new and better ways to transform a creative vision from an idea into an on screen reality. We use the effects to create transforming environments to breathe life and emotion into CG characters, and to craft impossible transformation transformations, like this human form with its fabric morphing and transitioning into a venomous giant snake will design supernatural elements to interact with live performance will breathe life into characters like Pokemon rocket. Toby. No freakin superheroes, like Spider Man, and the hell will create period buildings and location will mobilize army on horseback will construct battle scenes.
Will will put animals with pyrotechnics. And as storytellers grow more and more confident with visual effects. The creative challenges get bigger and bigger and more ambitious.
We're good.
Thank you.
Creativity and this kind of work involves taking risks. Often the techniques and technologies that we use to tell a story don't exist when we start out this slide here for example, the director wanted the audience to believe he'd gone to space to film it. When you look at that frame only Sandra Bullock space inside the space helmet is real. The environment the planet, the spaceship. Even Sandra's body. The helmet she's wearing and the visor in front of her face. All models and animated CG objects.
When we look at a shot from the film, the environment work is so important. There was no spaceship for Sandra to be inside. She's actually on wires in a cardboard set, and we are building the whole of the spaceship in CG over 2000 lit and rendered models make up the interior of that spaceship. Sandra is shot on wires, she sought on a bicycle seat with a poem, and we more fun transition from Sandra to Sandra, almost 96% of the screen time of this Finn finished film was made in CG, and actually one of our guys calculated that if you wanted to render gravity that movie on one computer alone, and you wanted the film finished today, you'd have had to have started the renderer off in 5000, BC.
So I'm talking a little about environments. Let's look at a few more environments and how they help us tell our stories.
Blue Screen studios sheets will create a vast industrial interior will match a London City location and build it around the stunt vehicle adding CG buildings, lighting, and traffic will realize fantasy lands with castles armies and giant beasts will put Sandra Bullock inside a NASA spacecraft will enhance backlot sets to extend the streets. Adding buildings, and squares and will build Holmes cities to create vast urban landscapes will recreate the majesty of high altitude mentioned scenes, or reconstruct the interior of a London taxi will animate rough ocean waves and accurately reconstruct the home of the French Quarter of Paris, building by building, so that the camera can fly over the city. Drop down into any street and end up in a square with our live action performance. And when Marvel superheroes need environments can explode next to their physical performances wizards need dining rooms, or we need to build totally CG environments that are futuristic to contain a pop apocalyptic apocalyptic narratives.
Whatever the desired location is BFV effects can create an unforgettable Canvas, upon which you can tell your story.
Of course, visual effects need performance. In this next real when you're watching it, just try and work out what it is about the characters the creatures that are making you emotionally connect with them.
The cameras often moving slowly, but the performances of these creatures are drawing you in try and work out what it is on the micro expressions of these characters, that's making you connect with them.
Sorry, technical
tables and chairs.
What are we going to do now.
If you ask a lot of questions
that can get you killed. We got to get out of here.
home we going to clear my name
lied to me.
Christopher
has never really been a more exciting time. I don't think to work in the world of visual effects.
So ladies and gentlemen, I'll leave you with a cat in space as my parting goodbye so thank you very much.
arrived on the world's taxi. The fourth largest tech market in all of North America, there is room for everyone to succeed. We are building an ecosystem. This isn't gonna happen overnight. Technology is all around us Toronto is having a moment, Tim. Technology is great. It's about people. We all come together as a people, the world looking right in front of us, as if we don't succeed. Together, we're all going to fail separate.
All right, now to meet an extraordinary group of people who truly think inside the box. We all know that feeling of joy you get when you open a new product for the first time. And our next guest know that feeling better than the rest of us because they do it for a living, the unboxing phenomenon has reached new levels over the past 12 months. And as we head into the busiest period of the year, our export expert, and boxers are about to treat us to a live unboxing, as they unpack some of the gadgets that are expected to take the Christmas period by storm. All right, so please give a big welcome to Lindsey Turrentine of CNET Kris Carlon of Android authority, Tom Honeyands of the tech chap, Eli Etherton, best known as Eli the computer guy and NothingButTech Jacklyn, Dallas.
Hello, I'm Lindsey from CNET. I'm here with these wonderful YouTubers who are going to dive right in and open these products, and we're just going to talk about them and what makes them so exciting this year, and Jacklyn. Let's start with you. The one plus 70 Pro, a hero phone that only some people know about. Open it up. Yeah, okay. So, when we start out looking at the BAS if we can get the camera over here, we can see that one plus is really interested in design so this is one of the best value phones on the market made by a company that really cares about cultivating a community, and also giving you a phone that gets a lot done for a good price. So as we open up the box, always the best part.
Have some paperwork but then right underneath. We have the actual phone. So it has this really cool blue color and you can see that it has a three camera setup. So you're going to be able to get a wide camera, a telephoto camera which is like a closed camera, and then you're also going to get an ultra wide cameras, you can get a lot in the frame and then up front, when you look at the actual display. You can see that it's pretty bezza list. So we're seeing a trend with manufacturers going to screens that don't have notches I try to get the best trained body ratio. This phone kills it with that it has this cool pop up camera which comes right out of the top. And that's so you don't have the camera in the screens and then you can have this full body display. So it's a great phone we're going to talk more about it but that's just an initial first look, this is cool and it's not available in the United States. Yeah. Yeah. So this phone is only available overseas or like here, but they do have the older version, the one plus seven pro available in the States but if you don't live in the States. This is one of the best value phones to get great Chris you have three phones in front of you, but let's talk about those two Google phones first Google's fourth pixel series. So, the 1.7 set this sort of affordable end of the spectrum where you get a lot for not much money. At the other end of the spectrum we have the pixels and the iPhone where you don't get anywhere near as many specs and you pay double as much. But arguably you get better software and all that kind of fun stuff that Apple and Google do so well. So, I'll show you here so we have the pixel for which is the smaller one.
It's got the same kind of design you probably saw on the iPhone 11 Pro this year, the big ugly of camera bump up the Zopa, but there's only two cameras on this one. Here is the larger version in the much better color. So that's the orange version. So I think there's a little bit of a war going on with Apple and Google this year to see who can make the ugly a fine, I think app might have one this year but we'll see what you guys think. So I'll move right along to the iPhone 11 bro I'm sure you guys all know this by now. There's not much you wouldn't have heard about this. But the big thing here obviously is that now the iPhone has three cameras so much like the one plus 70 Pro that Jacklyn just mentioned, there's a wide angle, a regular one and a telephoto zoom. And that's probably the biggest deal I would say about this. It's been around on a lot of Android phones for a long time but it's the first time an iPhone has had it, and it's a pretty big deal, and unfortunately Google is still only rocking two cameras. So this year, Google, kind of missed on things like battery life. Do you think that Google is just making that phone to carry its software. Yes, absolutely. I mean, Google is in the software business, Apple is more in the hardware business but they both kind of crossing over so Apple's trying to become more of a services and software company, and Google is trying to become more of a hardware company, not doing as well obviously they're not selling anywhere near as many pixels as iPhones, but they, there is a lot of trade and influence, things like the night mode that the pixels got last year. You can now get that on an iPhone 11 Pro, and vice versa, but yeah I think Google really missed a home run this year with the battery. Apple did a lot of good work with the, with the battery on the iPhone 11 series and the pixel full battery life is no very good, if you're an iPhone user and you're switching over you're probably used to having a battery pack and a cable all the time. That's a sad reality for the current pixels, but not for the iPhone this year. Got it. And speaking of professional rigs. Let's talk about this DELL LAPTOP Tom. Alright, so I've got the new Dell XPS 13 two in one so if we bring Mr steady cam over. This is a beautiful laptop. I'm sure you're familiar with the XPS series. This is the updated two in one. And as it says on the tin it means with that 360 hinge, you can spin it right round and be one of those five people who actually uses a laptop like that. I don't know you got to keep on the back. It's a beautiful laptop. And it's one of the first of Intel's new project Athena based laptops which maybe we'll talk more about in a minute, which is kind of exciting actually, but this is 10th Gen processor, beautiful touch screen up to 4k HDR really really thin Basil's Dell have finally managed to squeeze a webcam up top rather than on the bottom which looks up your nose, which wasn't ideal, and it is absolutely beautiful. And without performance boost from 10th Gen. Obviously this is quite expensive it's a premium device but it's gorgeous. It's gorgeous. And also having that 16 by 10. aspect ratio I'm not sure what you guys think but it's pretty much all laptops bar Mac books and a couple of other ones have 16 by nine aspect ratios and while that's fine I just liked that little extra height, it gives you a bit more comfortable reading websites and things so genuinely a stunning laptop. Looking forward to playing with it properly and Tom, what would you use this for if you owned it.
It's still not quite powerful enough for me to switch as my everyday laptop I edit 4k videos for my channel on the tech chap. And so this is sort of a pro Suma portable ultra Berg it's still, it's got a graphics boost obviously a slight performance boost solid battery life but and great for photoshopping 10 ATP video editing but it's still not really going to be good for gaming you might get 50 FPS at 720 P, but it's just a good all round travel work laptop does pretty much everything you need and it's just a stunning device. It's really beautiful. Eli, you have the two products on the stage that are not rectangles.
Let's talk about the smaller not rectangle first. This is exciting the pulse the JPL pulse for a portable speaker portable speaker this was actually fun, you're like, how can a speaker be fun. Oh, we're gonna have fun with a speaker. So it's a jbo Paul for as a Bluetooth speaker, Sam kind of thing you've probably seen a lot. Open oh nice fine box, and you get the speaker, can I get the XL, the pixel for XL. Yes.
So basically, I show this thing turns on. Oh come on, turn on for me guys this is a live demo.
This is amazing stuff. Basically, so you got your normal speaker, really good really loud has bass has trouble, the whole nine yards. The cool part about it is if we turn it on, we find the power supply.
You get the cool lights going on, look at those cool lights. And then what you do is we do this royalty free music, because that's what you need. Music please. And we start playing this
actually drop it in the mall.
Oh, did I know.
Erika blue.
I think that's kind of cool NF dance they got the whole color thing going on, and pull it out.
Again, water and electronics, everybody knows how well that goes together. So that's a JBL.
What is it pure for somebody yesterday called this the modern lava lamp. And I think that's a really good description it's like a cross between a lava lamp and a coffee tumbler. Yeah, that sounds good.
All right, will you show us the other not rectangle. This is a robot vacuum you've seen them before but this does something really special. Alright, so this is the normal so this is a shark. So again you take a look at this and go, Oh wow, it's a room. Because that's what people actually do in the real world.
And for the most part it does what room was do goes around it. It vacuums up everything on the floor goes back to its base station. What makes the shark really awesome, because if you were thinking about getting a shark because you were lazy or you think about getting a room but because you're lazy, you might be thinking, Well, I'm too lazy for a Roomba because I'm going to have to empty out the container of the Roomba. What's cool about this is you have a base station, the base station actually vacuums, all the stuff out of the shark. And so this stores up to a month's worth of dirt. So if you're so lazy, that a Roomba doesn't do it for you. You can get one of these things. It literally will go around for a month. And then after 30 days you empty this thing out, and you go about your business. So, as a shark again kind of cool, interesting with robotics. And again, the whole idea of how you can you make them even easier for people. I think that the, the robotics sector has leaned into robotic vacuums for a long time. As a good example of what a home robot can do and not done a lot more with it, the self emptying seems to be the first iteration and like 10 years vacuums have started to change. Let's talk a little bit more about technology that takes care of things for you. I think that the phones in particular are trying to step into predicting what you're going to want to do with them. Jacklyn does this, how does the software work with the one plus, is it does it get fast updates is it going to anticipate what you need. Yeah. So, one of the great things about buying a phone from one plus is software reliability so you see a lot with other competitors like the Samsung phones. They're great when you get them but a couple years down the line, they're either not supporting software updates or they're getting them really delayed so. Well, that could be missing a feature that you want one day, it could also be missing a really important security update so let's say that sounds like figures out or Google figures out that there's something that can offer a breach in your security sampling may take months to push it out to you, you don't have that with the one plus so they get really regular software updates and guaranteed updates as well, which is a great thing. And then in terms of how this phone uses like smart artificial intelligence, you're seeing it in ways of like night mode so if you've ever taken a photo at a concert or at night and it just looks terrible. It's because the sensor is so small can't really let in a ton of light. Night mobile really help improve that. And going a little bit more about the camera it's one of the most important features this year, and it's also a feature that a lot of consumers are really looking into this has a great camera setup, if we can get the steady cam over here.
I'll show you guys a little bit of what the camera can do.
Cool. All right, so right now we're looking at the main camera so you can see yourself in this image, and then we can actually pop out sue a wide camera and instantly we can get a lot more in the image so that's one of the biggest trends this year that you're going to see the iPhone 11 Pro has it. This phone has it as well so you can really get a lot more in. And then as I mentioned before, it does have that selfie camera, and it's actually decently wide so if we flip over to the selfie camera here. We got grip selfie. Yeah, we should get a good selfie I think we should, let's do that. Okay, so we're gonna get all of you guys in the background here and you can see how wide it is.
So, now if we look back at the selfie. You guys can see that you can get a lot in so with a typical iPhone you're really not able to get a lot it's Have you ever taken a group selfie and like your entire heads cut off right like what's going on this phone doesn't have that problem it's a pretty wide angle lens so it gets a lot done that you needed to and when we compare it to something like the iPhone seven pro and I would love your thoughts on this. I think that the iPhone 11 Pro is like the best camera on the market this year, I disagree.
I would love to hear, probably of the Fyde half the people in this auditorium on this one.
If you head over to Android authority.com we have crazy camera comparisons with the pixels and the iPhones and all the other major Franz from Samsung and so on. I still think the pixel edges out the iPhone.
In terms of detail resolution things like the old and older nerdy camera stuff that you probably don't really care about. But on a basic spec level. The versatility I mean this has three cameras. This has to. So what about for video. I think I prefer the iPhone for video. It would appear that Google doesn't care about video at all. So, there's four cameras on this right three on the back, one on the front, and every single one of them is a 12 megapixel sensor. The consistency and colors and everything is amazing across all of them. The video is great there's 4k 60 if that means anything to everybody on every single camera and on this phone, this doesn't have 4k 60 on any. It's this is not a phone for video people this is, I still prefer the photos from the pixel. But it's so close, it's, it's negligible it sort of depends what you like, iPhones a warmer, these are cooler, things like that but it's it's really interesting that we've been talking backstage quite a lot about this. Obviously that the pixel is great in a lot of ways, but it misses out on a lot of key features like that 4k front video 4k 60 bag video that charging isn't that fast. What's the same, it's the same as the one place is wall ways and Samsung. Next shimmy fast charging yeah these are both very slow the iPhone just got the same charging this had four years ago, this far beyond behind what it fundamentally make a difference of how you use the phone if the software is there the cameras there. And yes, the battery life sucks unfortunately but it's actually getting better. I'm using it everyday that is the four XL and the adaptive battery through you know it's a sort of recognition pattern use of how you use the phone, and last couple of weeks I've seen an extra couple of hours of use a day so that's pretty impressive how that all that learnings going on behind the scenes. Yeah, so I get the criticism of the pixel I really do, but I think it works on a fundamental level and yes it misses some bells and whistles but I wonder how many people bring those bells really yeah I think they're computational photography, the pixel is actually still the best camera like it can tell you what you need to see and it will show you, dynamic exposure the night mode is excellent. Yeah, so I do agree with you in that sense. Yeah, the pixels always done a lot with just one cameras right everyone else throws hardware at the problem. Yeah, Google just throw software of the problem. So the fact that they even have two lenses now is, it's a big deal. So, I mean Google knows what you need and apples very good at telling you what you need. And so you mix the two of them together, influence each other, whether you like it or not and I love the term computational photography. For those of you who don't know what that means that basically means that the software on that phone is trying to figure out what you want that photo to look like and simply just changing it changing the pixels on the, on the phone itself. Let me ask you about that AI, the pixel does some interesting live transcription. It does yes I think it's a fun thing to talk about yes like Google's actually condensed the whole English language, I think it's only American English language at this time. But it's all on the phone luckily there's nothing in the cloud or anything like that so it can actually transcribe basically in real time so when you talk to your phone, it's instant, and there's a recorder app, if you have a record yourself or other people for interviews or something like that which obviously we do. It's incredible. I mean it will real time transcribe everything that's happening and then you can search those recordings so you can just like a search bar, search for a particular word or phrase and it'll pull it up instantly it's it's pretty impressive stuff. That's pretty interesting. Yeah, Tom, I see you moving that screen around. Yes, I'm really interested. How many people use a two in one laptop, like that. I wonder if we all the time. I mean, obviously with these two and ones you've got clamshell. Let me get this right, you've got 10 mode tent mode that mode tablet mode. I maybe I maybe I see that and if you want to, on a plane or something and you want to have it like that. I wonder how many people use it like that. But one of the things I want to talk about very quickly. Is this project Athena thing it's an Intel thing, and you get I'm sure you all know the word ultra book, and I think I believe it was originally sort of a marketing term from Intel, and it was to describe a thin and light laptop with touch capabilities and you will know what an ultra book means. So what they're doing, which I think is actually pretty interesting is this project Athena innovation program which is such a catchy name, and it's supposed to guarantee a certain standard a certain spec touchscreen fast SSD. a 10th Jim processes Wi Fi six Thunderbolt three all these like really premium features that if you want to future proof high end laptop, you're going to want, and obviously this is this tables filled with a bunch of bunch of nerds really and, and most people don't know what an envy me SSD is and nor should they nor should they know what that is, but to have hopefully we'll see how this works out but hopefully you can see a laptop see it's part of this new platform honestly you should have called the ultra book 2.0. And then you'll know that it's gonna be a really high end machine and I think that's great for the consumer because it's so complicated. We were talking on the unbox days the other day, you've got, you know, resolution SSD is the hard drive you can you can have all the specs but then you miss out that you get an iPhone three instead of an ice seven or you get a full HD Roland 4k. There's so many things to consider and buying, buying phones is relatively easy because you. It's much of a much, much, much less a lot but with laptops there's so much to consider and I think it's really hard for the consumer but that the turn one is one of the first in this new wave of productivity and laptops and I think it's pretty exciting. Yeah, you have to remember to the web pay to complain about really insignificant stuff so that that is our entire reason for being right now we find the one thing that's not perfect and we just complain about it even if no one else cares. Eli. So you're looking at that form factor you talk about computers, a lot to. How much do you think the industry or we are all going to see radically changing form factors as we move toward things like foldable phones, more of these, maybe gimmicky maybe great changes. I don't think we're moving to foldable phones. That's adorable a bad idea.
So I think if you look at technology, if you look at computers, if you look at this thing, this thing basically it looks like a computer looked like 40 years ago I remember my father was a engineer for the government. He used to log home the suitcase portable computers that had a screen that had a drive that had a keyboard, they didn't have a mouse and 40 years we've actually gotten a mouse. So I think there's this idea that we're going to go to these radical new folding phones and all that kind of stuff. I would actually argue I think we're just gonna get more screens like so for me when I'm at my house, everybody's laughing about it yesterday, I use a crappy ass MacBook Pro for my emails to do my video editing and my real production stuff I use an iMac pro to look at my news I look at my iPhone. So instead of having convertible computers that nobody wants. I think we're just gonna have a lot of these different screens, you're just gonna sit there, you're gonna log in and get a big screen and get a little screen I think that's how it's guy I respect.
But I love the innovation of the galaxy Folz Samsung Galaxy fold no one should buy one this year but I think it's so interesting, and I think Jen to next year when it's cheaper was better it doesn't break as easily. It's just good to see something different, as we guys know, we do camera comparisons with zooming in 300% to see if there's a slight difference in shadows we're talking about mega pixel. Yeah, I mean, it is, is this that basically the same thing you pick any decent phone these days and they all do the same. They all nail the basics. So I'm glad someone is innovating and doing crazy stuff, even though yeah nobody should buy a foldable phone right now, but I also feel like foldable phones like I just spent 30 days with the galaxy Folz, even though it is fragile, it actually is very good for generation one product like they got so much right with it. It's basically if you don't know what it is it's this two in one form factor where you have a little screen up front but then you can unfold it and get a big screen when you want one, so it makes it so easy to read a book when you're on a train or only bring one device when you're traveling and you can get a bigger screen for emailing so I actually think that the galaxy fold. Got a lot right The only things that they really didn't get right can be really heavily improved in generation two and we see sampling a lot, take these steps for innovation that other companies just don't so I think running against that innovation isn't good for the industry and I feel like foldable phones in some way are going to have an impact on our lives in the future. All right, so you heard it here, you're getting more screens, and they're going to be more interesting. Thank you so much fair for us and for taking these out of boxes for us, it's been really fun. Yeah, Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
Not many companies can count, Marc Benioff and real I am amongst their investors, but our next guest, certainly can. His company made the award winning VR film Arden's wake, which featured Jamie Foxx and Queen Latifah. Here to tell us about new ways to experience your favorite worlds and characters. Please welcome to the stage, the CEO of Penrose studios, Eugene Chung.
Hello Lisbon.
My name is Eugene Chung CEO and founder of Penrose studios Penrose is a startup based in San Francisco, and we work with technologies, such as artificial intelligence AR VR. And our goal is to deliver them in a way that is natural and human to us as humans we desire, meaningful social connections with beings.
The Roman writer Ovid told the tale of Pygmalion Pygmalion crafted a sculpture Galatea. A such otherworldly perfection that he fell in love.
He was stricken by galaxy his inability to love back, and out of sympathy to the devout Pygmalion, the goddess Venus granted Pygmalion swish. And breathe life into galaxy.
Galaxy his story has repeated in places such as Pinocchio and Shakespeare's Winter's Tale spike Jones's movie her is a modern Dallas here, where, why, King Phoenix's character falls deeply in love with Scarlett Joe Hansen's AI.
The dream of artificial beings made human has been part of the human psyche. For thousands of years,
that future has never been closer than it is today.
technologies such as AR and VR, have a power to take seemingly inaccessible technologies such as AI and package them in a relatable and human way true human intelligence or artificial general intelligence AGI for short. It's still so far off that many believe that it may never even be possible.
But the power of embodied beings that utilize the powers of current AI will still be extremely compelling. And we are only on the cusp of those possibilities. Today, we are on the verge of creating digital characters that react and interact, in a way, never before experienced these characters could in fact be the most human way we have ever interacted with a computing platform, and could form the basis of the operating systems of the future.
We call these virtual beings, and they're already here. All of these images are real digital characters that exists today. They range the gamut from stylized to realistic, but they all have personalities influence and fans.
They live cross platform from social media to music to video games and productivity. And we're only beginning to tap the potential of humanity's relationship with these virtual beings. And there's a lot more that is going to be ahead.
So, this is our virtual being Mina.
The hero of Penrose his latest piece Arden's wake, which has won awards around the world, including the first line for best VR at the Venice International Film Festival.
Virtual beings are the carriers of human story, and Nina's story is one of family and loss and finding one's true self. It's a universal story.
Now let's go back to meet us beginning, and talk about how a virtual being is born.
As with most good stories, virtual beings begin with character as Robert McKee said true character is revealed and the choices, a human being makes under pressure, the greater the pressure, the deeper the revelation, the triggers the choice to the characters, essential nature.
While humans come from the womb, virtual beings are burst with words.
As with a movie or TV show. Our hero Nina's character is built through the choices. She has made, and will make throughout her life.
So, once we figured out who Mina, is we can begin to explore what she looks like.
These are some of the early sketches that the amazing artists of Penrose drew based on Nina's character foundations and her story from all these choices one stood out to us. And so, Nina's digital form began.
We then breathe life into Mina, giving her different feelings and emotions.
Without life came increasingly refined and sophisticated expressive capability.
Through exploring the depths of meanness character. We came to understand her history, and how she came to be, who she is. Today, in conjunction with developing Nina's character, we crafted her world. They were Amir sketches at first, but those sketches became more vivid and ultimately more clear throughout our entire world development process.
Much of our world development process was done directly in VR itself through VR native asset creation tools which are technologies that we have developed at Penrose that allow us to build entire worlds with our own hands, as if the entire universe, were made of clay that we could craft directly in real time.
From that, we placed Mina, and her father tied into their world. And looking at the horizon, Nina looks yearning for adventure and independence.
But VR is not the end to meet a story like Pygmalion Galatea. We are bringing Mina into our own world through the power of AR technology. Here's Mina, on a table in our studio in San Francisco.
Then last year, on this very stage, we have Penrose took things a step further and enabled Nina's ability to interact with a live audience. Let's take a look.
Being in a place like Penrose studios where we have this opportunity to define new workflows and new ways to make things. It's just a breath of fresh air,
air VR is just at its birth, just in the beginning, We are the ones who are going to push it forward were the ones who are going to make it happen to we're creating something that no one really yet fully understands. And that's the most exciting thing.
Childhood is this amazing time where you are free and you have this ability to have this appreciation excitement for the world and really an excitement for everything that you see around you.
Can you show us what's inside your cabin.
I haven't cleaned up appropriately I'm sorry I wasn't expecting so many guests.
Last time that this came about was 1890s 1900s in cinema flat screen record linear screen emerged, and I was always like, wouldn't it be great to have Liv back then, to be there to help define what this thing was, and, you know, I was kind of longing for that, and never thought I'd love to see you.
Thank you, driven by the solid foundations of character and story. Mina was powered by real human to interact with a live audience.
But our technologies are developing at a rapid pace. And increasingly, Mina, and other virtual beings are being driven by AI to put things in perspective. According to the World Economic Forum by 2020. There will be 35.9 zettabytes, that's 35.9 trillion gigabytes of data that will be generated by humanity. This is a five fold increase from 2015. And it's only going to be growing faster as data increases the power of machine learning and deep learning will increase the pace, by 2049, ai is projected to be advanced enough to generate a top 40 pop song. Make a creative video, and even write a New York Times bestseller.
Therefore, to appropriate Otto von Bismarck, the great questions of the day will be settled by data and space. But the key principle underlying everything will be human connection.
The creativity that our AI powered virtual beings will have in the coming years will be astonishing exciting, an unprecedented in the history of humanity. We look forward to what the future will bring. Thank you very much.
In May of this year, Lilium aviation revealed the prototype for their fully electric jet with a promise that soon, anyone can fly anywhere, anytime, backed by a group of investors including Tencent, they are leading the race for personal air transport. But is this possible and if so, how soon to discuss. Hou close, how close we are to take off. Please welcome to the stage, co founder and CEO of Lilium aviation, Daniel Wiegand and chief exploration Officer of 10 cent. David Wallerstein.
Thanks so much to Portugal, the city of Lisbon for welcoming us here today. It's amazing to be here I'm such an incredible place to visit. Thank you. My name is David Wallerstein Yeah, it's amazing guys, thank you so much. I mean, the organization, everything is just amazing. This is my good friend and colleague, Daniel Wiegand, who is, to me, one of the most exciting founders in the world today, certainly that I've had the pleasure to work with, but we'll talk about that in just a moment. How don't web summit.
Thank you. So one of the things I do in my role as a chief exploration officer I understand many people haven't really heard of that kind of title before, and I think it's worth explaining what we do and then how it relates to lilium.
The CXO kind of role is unique in that I'm trying to move the slide. Oh, here we go. Cool. There we go.
And that we really think about the biggest challenges on earth in this role with my exploration team and our colleagues at Tencent.
What are the things that we need to get right as humanity. What is the trajectory of our planet. These are the questions that as we grew as a company, we finally started having some time to consider them because in the early days, the company you're struggling to provide your services to have a right to exist to survive to be profitable. And then as we grew we could start asking okay like what are the things that we need technology to do for us. How do we use our tools to solve the greatest challenges and to me the big headline is that we're heading to 10 billion people by 2050. And this is going to happen in the context of change things like climate change that means dynamic weather patterns and that will have an effect on global agriculture, and energy and water, and in spin off effects that even involve human health like the relationship between air pollution and cancer and so on and so forth. How do we prepare for a world with 10 billion people, where everyone has the ability to eat and improve their lives and move forward and how can we make technology do that for us. In thinking about these challenges, there's two main trends that I've been thinking about in particular and I was thinking about before I met Daniel, and they're separate trends, but they're overlapping. One is a global urbanization trend.
55% of humanity today at 7.7 billion people live in cities, but that's going to go to 65%. By the year, 2050, and that's with 10 billion people so we're basically going to add 2 billion people into our cities around the world and if you look at the developing world the growth of cities is absolutely extraordinary. At the same time, we're building more roads we sell 100 million cars a year roughly on Earth, less than 1% of them are still electric vehicles. So as we sell 100 million cars a year we're creating these little monsters out there that say feed me feed me and what do they need. They need oil, they need energy they need gasoline, if they're a gas powered car for the rest of the life of that car it needs gasoline 700 billion gallons. I'm sorry barrels 700 billion barrels of gasoline, that we're using a year and then you have road cos roads are the single biggest infrastructure investment area on Earth. Okay, $1.5. trillion a year and that is the forecast going forward, that we pay city by city country by country, but it aggregates to this massive number that's bigger than energy. Bigger than water bigger than any other infrastructure area on earth. And the trend line with these two overlapping investment areas, is what we all experience probably most of our daily lives unless someone here is living in the countryside and has a really good situation he's Tye Tell us about it later. urban congestion. It can only get worse, unless we do something differently, you add more people, more cars more roads, at some point, they're going to be congestion, there's going to be more congestion. So we asked questions like, Can we do this differently or is this it is this the best we can do it humanity if you think about the next 30 years is this all we can do we just settle on the, the existing architectures the existing ideas, or can we do things differently, can we merge the urban life that we all like to lead to be professionals and and enjoy services with the rule. Could we see grandma and be back to work during the day you know Grandma, the real industry and the rural areas and so on so forth, how do we merge this is it possible to find a technology to do this.
And I started thinking more with if you could have two main components of your future human mobility, infrastructure, renewable green electricity that actually drops in price. As you build out more and more renewable green electricity because it has really zero marginal costs, and air, the air that we get around us for free.
Is it possible, and that's the question two and a half years ago I post to my good friend Dafna will actually he posted back to me the other way, to be honest.
But it's still rocking my world today, Daniel, tell us more about how this might actually be possible for real. Thank you, David. I believe this is very much possible.
I was actually a student sitting in my dorm room in Glasgow. And like any good aerospace engineering geek I was studying aerospace engineering. I was watching videos of fancy aircraft on YouTube. And one of the aircraft I saw was a military vertical takeoff and landing aircraft v 22 Osprey. And I thought to myself, What if we would take this sort of aircraft architecture repurpose it for the civil use for a commercial service service with passengers. And if it would be successful in doing this, we would basically be able to solve all the problems that David just mentioned in one goal, we would get a new transportation system that doesn't need roads, railways tunnels, or bridges, something that's emission free, if we make it electric something that can go much faster than the costs we have today, and something that adds a third dimension to the capacity of our transportation system today. So, I found my three co founders and together in the year 2015. We set out and gave ourselves the vision of creating and delivering a world which enables anyone to fly anywhere and anytime we founded lilium in the year 2015 in Munich. And now, four years later, we have a team of almost 400 people working on this project and we have a beautiful aircraft, which we call the lilium jet.
The lilium jet prototype, as you can see in the video right now is a full size full performance prototype space for five people, it's controlled from the ground, and it takes a vertically like a helicopter, and then transitions from vertical into horizontal flight, using the all electric engines and thrust factoring to control the aircraft. So here we go, we have a fully electric fully battery powered aircraft that can fly 300 kilometers on one single charge. It flies in cruise flight 300 kilometers per hour. And it's completely emission free and extremely silent.
All electric guys. People sometimes ask us even after we explained is electric. Yeah, that's all electric.
And it lands in the same way as it was taking off.
It's flying right there.
Thank you. So what can we do with this. Some people are talking about urban and mobility and the aircraft is perfectly suited to do this, but we have something wider in mind, we want to increase the radius of our lives. And what we mean by this is, if you look at this slide and you see the red circle. This is what you can do in a car in one hour. If you spend an hour in a train this is what you can get to. And if you spend an hour in our service.
This is what you can get.
Total Georgia giving you 25 times more surface 25 times more connectivity with a transportation system that comes at the same price like a taxi on the ground. And this is about the same step like from horse carrier just two cars, suddenly were able to connect areas which are multiple metropolitan areas into one large metropolitan area with a completely new level of connectivity, and we're not just able to for example replace a high speed rail line that goes in one direction, because the infrastructure investment in our case is so small. We're just building the first meter and the last meter but nothing in between. We can create that sort of networks in a very fast time. And now think of what this means to our lives and to our countries. Suddenly we can live in the countryside work in the cities we find jobs, way, way easier. We have a renewable energy for our transportation system. And because we don't have to make all these infrastructure investments, we can redirect public spending into different areas. Now there's a few areas which are very exciting and interesting to talk about. One of them is safety. Safety is at the core of everything we do without safety we would be nothing. Now the good news is, the lilium jet is designed to the same safety standards like a commercial aircraft, and these are pretty high. So if you today to a certain trip in a commercial aircraft. You statistically way safer than doing the same trip in a car, and the lilium jet is in the certification with the European and the US aviation authorities, and the requirements they have to meet is for example, it has to be certified for 10 to the minus nine. So what does that mean it means an aircraft, a commercial airliner and the lilium jet are designed such that they only have one catastrophic failure or less than one in 1 billion flight hours, or in other words, less than one than 10 to the minus nine failures per hour. Now how are we achieving this. The key here is redundancy. This is why a lilium jet has 36 engines has three batteries has 12 independent data buses for flight control computers and the redundancy means whenever one of these components fails, you have a second one that takes over the job and brings it safely. Down to Earth. So this is because we all want to get safely home in every flight.
Now, a second interesting area is noise. We have been thinking about noise from the first day. And this is my way using directed fans as a propulsion technology. This technology allows us in comparison to open propellers to capture and dissipate the noise within the DAX in acoustic liners before it propagates into the environment, and what we have achieved with this and measured in the prototype is that the aircraft at takeoff is about the same noise level like a track.
Or in other words to explain this, put it in context, if you take a helicopter and you're one kilometer away, and you have a certain noise level, you can come 10 times closer to a lilium jet to get the same noise level. So the noise carpet on the ground we are creating is 100 times smaller than for today's helicopters, and we had to get this right, because it's the opening ticket to our vision. If this is too noisy, none of us would accept it and to me, Daniel it feels a lot like hair dryers going off that's the only way I can describe it when you actually see the plane fly, is, is you know imagine 36 hairdryers on the stage here is kind of an analogy for how to think about that sound profile it's absolutely extraordinary and then No, no smell either whenever I ever saw something that flew, I was always used to smelling all the gasoline that's burning even when it's on the ground. This is an electric vehicle using renewable energy ideally, so not noisy, not smelly it's absolutely incredible. Yeah, it's very human friendly flying.
Then there's another topic, which is visual pollution. Yeah, I thought it was quite helpful actually even for ourselves to envision this new world because we found in discussing the lilium model with different people around the world that when you think about something new like something that can fly you're not quite sure how it will affect the operations of a city so we thought we'd make a simulation using the Unreal Engine, making things true to scale of course this is a virtual representation a simulation but that would be for example what a lilium jet would look like at 300 meters away, and then we can see, you know, another kind of line, something coming from, you know, downtown to the airport would be at a higher elevation like 800, meters. The point is you can barely see that plane, also shouldn't be able to hear it either. And this would be an example of a lilium jet, taking off from the roof of a building this looks like roughly a 10 story building or something like that very much. Something integrating into the operations of a city it especially you know it would take time for the density to build up in the early days, it would be barely noticeable in any in any sense in a city I think. And the key point here is because we're using the third dimension for our transportation, we can eliminate the transit traffic from our perception. So as you could see in the video, the taxis, they are all not stopping in the point where we are there just passing. And if we use an airplane that flies in 1000 or 3000 meters from one city to the other. We don't perceive this transit traffic anymore. And today, more than 95% of the traffic we perceive in our cities and daily life is not going to the point where we are. And this is what we can remove.
So to give you an idea how this is going to look, this is what we have here this is what a structure we call a vertical board. It typically consists of a helicopter takeoff and landing surface and maybe six to eight gates where we can charge the aircraft and passengers can board and the board, and with a structure as simple as this. We can transport up to 1 million people to here, so we can replace entire high speed rail lines with several of these structures. And this is how it's going to look from inside. To give you an idea of how this could look like it's just a concept at the moment, expect these to book them on a smartphone, then you take maybe a taxi or an autonomous car to get to the airport, you spend maybe five minutes in the lounge before you move out to the airport to the aircraft. And then the user experience is designed to be smooth and digital. And we also want this to be a human experience and elegant experience, and something that's exciting. We're flying to the destination we want to go. So, this is how it could look like in an urban environment as a big airport for example, but what excites me even more is the small one in the countryside, because, yeah we basically needed a concrete surface, and the charger, and suddenly a city is connected 360 degrees to the environment at maybe half a million often investment and these cities never had connectivity before because it was just prohibitively expensive to be highways, or high speed trains or anything else to connect these places, and I love the idea of doing something off grid even for the developing world, where you could have landing pads like this, perhaps even more simply with just windmill or solar power and charging locally, and you may not even have a robust road infrastructure to get to that point, you may not have an operating grid even but you've got local power. And this could be a completely new paradigm for the developing world to get connected. A lot of that $1.5 trillion a year investment is going to be going into road infrastructure in the developing world so exactly imagine potential it's a different paradigm for mobility options, globally, exactly we can do the same thing that mobile data did to telephones. With this we were leapfrogging ground infrastructure. And for the developing world we can do the same with this technology, because most of the cost in our service is local. The aircraft depreciation is relatively low, and that means if the salary level locally is lower the prices of the service locally, are going to be lower.
And this is actually the key points. The founders and me had in mind when we founded the company, we said, this has to be affordable for an average person using a car today.
And we have achieved the business model with this aircraft that allows us to operate the plane at the same price, like a taxi. This is a really key point it was so important for us when learning about the company initially, years ago, and and understanding Daniels vision that this can be the same price as a taxi and I know it's not easy for everyone to be able to take a taxi. They can be expensive, but it's still a very accessible price point. And that's essential for us. And there's two reasons for this.
The first one is with an average speed of 250 kilometers per hour. We're traveling six to seven times faster than a ground based taxi. As we are operating a shuttle service. We will also achieve two to three times higher load factors than a ground based taxi. And these two things together, allow us to do about 20 times more passenger kilometers with Liam cheddar, compared to a car on the ground, although we have the same number of seats. And this basically means, even if the jet is 10 times more expensive to produce, and at the same time maybe our pilot has two or three times the salary. He does and the same time, 1020 times more passenger kilometers, the cost of the pilot per passenger is actually lower than for a taxi on the ground, and we find a similar situation on the energy side because of these two numbers. So what we have here is a comparison of the energy cost of one person for a 300 kilometers trip, assuming the load factors of these different transportation systems. So for a helicopter We are at 108 euros. This is not really great for one of us. Then for the electric car we have nine euros in a ground based service, and for the lilium chat we sit somewhere around six euros. Right and a Daniel actually so that nine euro number though that's for electric cars and we just talked about that electric cars are still less than 1% of sales Tesla, and so on and so forth. What would it be for a gas powered car, but we all tend to drive Steele now, how much exactly depending on the country, it's two to three times higher so guys buy electric cars.
Yeah, cheaper to go where you need to go with less cost of energy. Right. But faster and better, right exactly reducing congestion, getting there faster, a green revolution can actually be better. It doesn't mean stepping back, it doesn't mean take right it doesn't mean doing less, it could actually be doing more. The key point is if we all take a linear jet in the future, and do our long distance trips in the air. We will as a society consume the same or less energy of what we consume today.
Danielle where does it go from here.
We start off. We begin deploying, how does this actually affect our lives, let's think about just everyday people, you and me, people in the audience. Once this could be incorporated into our lives and it should be in it will be. But how does it actually affect like how we live. It will probably affect every single part of our life, because if we take a close look if we look at the traffic jam outside when we came here, and many other areas. Our life is totally depending on the connectivity and the transportation system we have, that means if we have a transportation system like this one, we can suddenly live in the countryside and work in the city. We can make cities basically reach out by a factor of five into other cities and connect whole areas which were previously separated from each other. And this is something we can launch in the year 2025. By that time, we want to be operational in two or three etc., two or three cities on the globe. But if we fast forward like 1020 years from now, we would expect in 20 years maybe 50% of you came here in a lilium jet car ownership will have changed, you may only you may use a ground based autonomous taxi for various trips, but you will probably never use one again for a trip that is maybe longer than 100 kilometers, because it will be five times faster in an air taxi service that comes at the same price, and it would probably be autonomous, and you could be like staying here in Lisbon, but you could go down to Algarve have a nice dinner there, check out the beach. 2030 minutes I don't know exactly how far that is but come back to Lisbon and stay here so you're actually, you're still a customer of the city, but you're also exploring more of the local region that's good for tourism that's good for us as tourists. I mean, everyone. Everyone wins the thing that's most exciting to me again, is that the green transformation that we need to have doesn't mean doing less or stepping back, it's really about having more options for humanity to develop, because we need them because we are going to grow and we're gonna have all these challenges, but it can actually be fundamentally better and we can have a lot more room to explore our potential as people. This is the core policy we follow at lilium, we make a product that is better than what exists, and he said the same time greentech, and this way we basically get people saving the planet and the climate, who don't have this on their radar, just because they love the product. So we want to build it together with you we need a lot of support, it's a new paradigm. When a new paradigm comes out there's a lot of questions, some people wonder if it's possible or not, but everything in life has to be built. It has to be created. It has to be accepted by the community so you look forward to working with all of you. Continuing the debate.
Thank you. Thank you so much. Thanks everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen, we're taking a short break. We'll be back with the best off breakout growth companies here at web summit in 15 minutes.
Sala Hickey now.
Paddy as all the payments.
I apologize.
It's important.
is to see an ocean Menn.
Belinda.
Please welcome to the stage, Coco separation and managing director of TechStars Toronto Sunil Sharma.
So good afternoon, I'm, I hope that you've been having an amazing web summit so far we're halfway through day two. So as mentioned, my name is Sunil Sharma, I'm the managing director of TechStars Toronto, and also the co host of collision. So later today we have more incredible speakers that are going to come up here and meet you. But for now, we are going to meet the startups that we think are going to truly change the world in 2020 and Bill and beyond. So at this time today and tomorrow, we do this we focus on the growth stage companies the very best growth stage companies from around the world. And we want to get started right now. So our first speaker has come all the way from California. His name is Spenser skates, and he is the founder and CEO of amplitude amplitude provides product analytics to help companies better understand user behavior. So please welcome Spenser out onto the stage.
Hello web summit. My name is Spenser skates I'm CEO and co founder of amplitude really excited to be with you all here today. Our mission is to help companies build better products through product intelligence, today we work with over 30,000 teams including 20 of the Fortune 100.
We're now living in an age of product and what we've seen is that all companies are turning into digital product or service companies.
This is not just because of the great opportunity that exists in building digital products. This is because it's an existential issue for these companies for a few different reasons. Firstly the traditional channels of these companies are being disrupted by cloud and mobile companies coming online. Secondly, digital is the only area of the economy that's growing. Thirdly, and this is the most interesting one, these companies are having to change their strategy from a focus on acquisition to a focus on long term value and retention of their customers because acquisition channels have been saturated.
Most fortune 100 companies have really small, small overall growth so if you take a look at the orange bar there most, most of them are either flat or shrinking. The one bright spot within these companies is revenue from digital products. I'm not telling you anything you already know, you don't already know the really key difference though is how these companies are attacking the change, they're investing in product first change agents in order to help them drive revenue through digital products and turn their digital products from a cost center to a revenue center and their businesses. In order to do that they need to drive organizational change through multiple levels in the organization. Firstly, they need to align their investments to what product bets are working. Secondly, they need to be able to make quick informed bets both in product and marketing in order to be able to hit their metrics. And thirdly, they need to make sure every single member of their team is able to understand the complete user journey end to end.
This can be really hard. Let me give a really quick example, Disney really wants to understand what behaviors lead to free trial conversion, they can look through their existing data systems, about what shows are being watched. But they have a really hard time connecting those two see which ones are likely to cause free trial conversion, their existing tools can understand from a counter perspective but can't analyze those journeys with in depth at amplitude, we've custom designed the database to help solve for these product use cases with complex distributed joins. That's our secret sauce that's why we can answer complex behavioral questions in less than 30 seconds. This is the solution that we call product intelligence. It starts with modern behavioral data infrastructure, where we can support complex queries on top of that we have a product analytics platforms that answers questions for the entire team on demand. Last but not least, you can use the behavioral data to personalize and customize the product experience for scale.
Now let me tell you the story of one amplitude customer is using product data to power their growth into it, Intuit recently launched QuickBooks, that was targeted at self employed professionals. After they launched their product they found that less than 20% of their customers were actually sending invoices through their tool. This, they found out through using amplitude that the conversion rate was particularly bad for customers who were using Gmail.
As a result, they ended up, figuring out and thinking about how they can explore the navigation issues around their product and they were able to build conviction that shipping a gmail plugin for their product would be the best solution. Once they ship the plugin they saw a two x increase in invoices being paid on time, and became the fastest growing product in into its history.
Thank you all very much looking forward to the west rest of web summit with you all this week.
Thank you very much Spenser.
So next up we have an amazing Canadian company. Our next speaker has built a mobile food pickup app that in just under three years is used by 100,000 teams globally and has spread across three continents. So tell us to tell us more about ritual. Please welcome Toronto zone, Ray Reddy.
Everyone.
So the ritual app. Lets, lets you order ahead, skip the line and earn rewards on everyday takeout from all your favorite restaurants. About two years ago, we launched piggyback a social ordering feature that connects teammates inside of offices to be able to pick up food and drinks for each other, enabling free delivery inside of over 100,000 companies.
Earlier this year, we expanded from from North America to five new countries we launched the UK, Australia, Hong Kong, the Netherlands and Germany.
So join me today at 315 on the growth stage where I'll share five of the most important lessons we learned scaling globally.
And if you happen to be in North America next summer. Please check out collision, that takes place in June 2020 in my hometown of Trotta. Thank you,
and sweet.
So the next CEO has built an incredibly dynamic company that is going to shift the world of advertising analytics and marketing. His company is called impact, which is transforming the way enterprises manage and optimize all types of partnerships. So to tell us more. Please welcome to the stage, CEO of impact technologies, David Yovanno.
But trend in today's consumer behavior is causing an enterprise growth crisis for those businesses who are solely relying on traditional sales and marketing tactics. What's changed. Well, according to HubSpot people basically don't trust sales people anymore. According to the McCarthy group, people basically don't like advertising either and especially millennials, who are now the generation with the most spending power, and the IAB reports that basically all of the new digital ad dollars are going to just two companies, Facebook and Google, causing ad prices to skyrocket. So the trends are traditional sell selling and advertising is not getting the job done anymore on its own. And I believe that this trend is given rise to a new category for enterprise revenue growth, called partnerships, which happen when enterprises, align themselves with other businesses and individuals who have a trusted first party relationship with the customer that they're trying to acquire, and they establish an alliance to natively refer customers, and these partnerships are happening today with influencers business to business with channel partners affiliates software integrations let me give you a few examples Ticketmaster has a native software integration partnership with Spotify, a person can tap through content and Spotify, tap on a concert event and seamlessly purchase a ticket Airbnb has a strategic business development partnership with quanta is a person can book a stay at Airbnb while booking a flight at Quantcast com fashion women's fashion retailer textile has an influencer partnership with Marla Katherine she has over a million subscribers on YouTube in one video she's wearing a pair of leggings. In the description of the video is a link to shop and purchase at a textile Brandt store. There are many more examples but what's important to understand is that these kinds of partnerships are now moving the needle for enterprise revenue growth. In fact, the World Trade Organization estimates that 75% of world trade today flows through exactly these kinds of partnerships and Forrester predicts that the next wave of enterprise growth is going to come from optimizing this new channel.
What I find fascinating is that for companies who already get it and have a mature partnership function in place they're seeing it contribute more than 25% of their total revenue mix and as a channel it's growing more than 50%. This is a really big deal. And what I think these mature companies are doing differently, or at least three things they're organizing their people around partnerships so they're consolidating their business development teams with their influencer teams affiliate teams channel partner teams so just like companies have sales teams and marketing teams we're seeing partnership teams form. And these teams are pursuing more mature partnership processes. So just like sales has their territories and quotas marketing has account based marketing, we're seeing partnership teams follow the same path right strategy pipeline management, the understanding of creative deal structure and the value exchange with partners. Finally, these mature companies are investing in the technology required for partnership automation. So just like Salesforce brought automation to sales Marketa and HubSpot automation of marketing impact is a market leader, and bringing automation to partnerships impact is doing this through its partnership cloud solution, which automates the full partnership lifecycle from the discovery and recruitment of new partners the contracting a payment processing for partners as well as the tracking the engagement protection against fraud optimization, and this all happens globally in local language contracts payments are processed in more than 80, local currencies impact is managing more than 50 billion US dollars in e commerce sales on the platform, and is processing more than 2 billion US dollars, and payments to partners this year, impact is doing all of this for more than 1000 enterprise clients who deeply understand that partnerships are the next category for enterprise revenue growth. You can find out more at impact. com. Thank you.
Okay. Thank you, David.
So next up we have Sarah Nahm, the founder and CEO of lever lever builds modern recruiting software for teams to source interview and hire top talent, so let's get Sara up on stage to tell us more about lever.
I'm super excited to be the CEO and founder of a company in the hiring space because never have we needed to elevate our approach to talent more in the space of a single generation everything about the workforce and employment has changed, we are seeing digital transformation affects the skills that are needed in every single industry. Nowadays the workforce is increasingly millennial and Gen Z is soon on their heels and they're looking for a really different type of career than previous generations. And lastly were in a fully internet connected post social era, which means that corporations now have to think a lot more critically on how they approach the data that they have about people in their workforce. And the way that companies have hired really hasn't changed. The Old World focused a lot on resumes and I mean I would ask how much about a person can you truly know from one sheet of paper. I argue that the future of work the future of the workforce is increasingly built around relationships, people out there are actually looking to have a relationship with the organizations that they want to commit themselves to that's a complete view of who they are. That's a relationship that lasts over time. And it's also a different approach that organizations are taking to the database of talent that they need to power the future of their workforce. And so that's where lever has really stepped in to offer a different way to hire with lever, you actually start the way all of you would start to attract and hire the best talent out there you reach out to them. So you start by sourcing top talent from your network which with lever is just the click of a button from someone's profile on LinkedIn or any other professional site. From there, of course you need to reach out and we think the best way to do that is collaboratively and authentically with all the employees in your company, maybe the first emails from the manager, offering content.