
Casey Lau: All right now to meet an extraordinary group of people who truly think inside the box. We all know that feeling of joy you get when you open a new product for the first time, and our next guest know that feeling better than the rest of us because they do it for a living. The unboxing phenomenon has reached new levels over the past 12 months. And as we head into the busiest period of the year, our export expert unboxers are about to treat us to a live unboxing as they unpack some of the gadgets that are expected to take the Christmas period by storm. All right, so please give a big welcome to Lindsey Turrentine of CNET, Kris Carlon of Android Authority, Tom Honeyands of The Tech Chap, Eli Etherton best known as Eli The Computer Guy, and NothingButTech's Jacklyn Dallas
Lindsey Turrentine: Hello, I'm Lindsey from CNET I'm here with these wonderful YouTubers who we're going to dive right in and open these products and we're just going to talk about them and what makes them so exciting this year. And Jacklyn Let's start with you. The OnePlus 7T Pro a hero phone that only some people know about. Open it up.
Jacklyn Dallas: Yeah. Okay. So when we start out looking at the box if we can get the camera over here, we can see that OnePlus is really interested in design. So this is one of the best value phones on the market made by a company that really cares about cultivating a community and also giving you a phone that gets a lot done for a good price. So as we open up the box, always the best part. We have some paperwork. But then right underneath, we have the actual phone. So it has this really cool blue color. And you can see that it has a three camera setup. So you're going to be able to get a wide camera, a telephoto camera, which is like a close camera. And then you're also going to get an ultra wide camera so you can get a lot in the frame. And then up front, when you look at the actual display, you can see that it's pretty bezel less. So we're seeing a trend with manufacturers going to screens that don't have notches, they try to get the best screen to body ratio, this phone kills it with that. It has this cool pop up camera which comes right out of the top. And that so you don't have the camera in the screen so then you can have this full body display. So it's a great phone. We're going to talk more about it. But that's just an initial first look.
Lindsey Turrentine: This is cool, and it's not available in the United States.
Jacklyn Dallas: Yeah, yeah, so this phone is only available overseas or like here, but they do have the older version. The OnePlus seven pro available in the States. But if you don't live in the States, this is one of the best value phones to get.
Lindsey Turrentine: Great, Kris, you have three phones in front of you. But let's talk about those two Google phones first. Google's fourth pixel series.
Kris Carlon: So the the OnePlus sevens at this sort of affordable end of the spectrum where you get a lot for not much money. At the other end of the spectrum, you have the pixels and the iPhone where you don't get anywhere near as many specs and you pay double as much. But arguably, you get better software and all that kind of fun stuff that Apple and Google do so well. So I'll show you here. So we have the pixel 4 which is the small one. It's got the same kind of design you probably saw on the iPhone 11 Pro this year, the big ugly of camera bump up the top there. But there's only two cameras on this one. Here is the larger version in the much better color. So that's the oh so orange version. So I think there's a little bit of a war going on with Apple and Google this year to see who can make the uglier phone. I think Apple might have won this year, but we'll see what you guys think. So I'll move right along to the iPhone 11 Pro. I'm sure you guys all know this by now, there's not much you wouldn't have heard about this. But the big thing here obviously, is that now the iPhone has three cameras, so much like the OnePlus 70. Pro, the Jacklyn just mentioned, there is a wide angle, a regular one and a telephoto zoom. And that's probably the biggest deal I would say about this. It's been around on a lot of Android phones for a long time. But it's the first time an iPhone has had it. And it's a pretty big deal. And unfortunately, Google is still only rocking two cameras.
Lindsey Turrentine: So this year, Google kind of missed on things like battery life. Do you think that Google is just making that phone to carry its software?
Kris Carlon: Yes, absolutely. I mean, Google is in the software business. Apple is more in the hardware business, but they both kind of crossing over. So Apple's trying to become more of a services and software company and Google's trying to become more of a hardware company not doing as well obviously they're not selling anywhere near as many pixels as iPhones but they there is a lot of trade and influence things like the night mode that the pixels got last year. You can now get that on an iPhone 11 Pro and vice versa. But yeah, I think Google really missed a home run this year with the battery. Apple did a lot of good work with the with the battery on the iPhone 11 series and the pixel 4 battery life is no very good. If you're an iPhone user and you're switching over you're probably used to having a battery pack and a cable all the time. That's a sad reality for the current pixels. But not for the iPhone this year.
Lindsey Turrentine: Got it and speaking of professional rigs, let's talk about this Dell laptop Tom.
Tom Honeyands: Alright, so I've got the new Dell XPS 13 two in one. So if we bring Mr. steadicam over, this is a beautiful laptop. I'm sure you're familiar with the XPS series. This is the updated two in one and ass it says on the tin, it means with that 360 hinge, you can spin it right round and be one of those five people who actually uses a laptop like that. I don't know, you've got to keep on the back. It's a beautiful laptop. And it's one of the first of Intel's new projects, Athena based laptops, which maybe we'll talk more about in a minute, which is kind of exciting, actually. But this is 10th gen processor, beautiful touch screen up to 4k HDR, really, really thin, bezels Dell have finally managed to squeeze a webcam up top rather than on the bottom, which looks up your nose, which wasn't ideal, and it is absolutely beautiful. And with that performance boost from 10th Gen. Obviously, this is quite expensive. It's a premium device, but it's gorgeous. It's gorgeous. And also having that 16 by 10 aspect ratio. I'm not sure what you guys think. But it's pretty much all laptops bar Mac books, and a couple of other ones have 16 by nine aspect ratios. And while that's fine, I just like that little extra height, it gives you a bit more Comfortable reading websites and things so genuinely a stunning laptop. Looking forward to playing with it properly.
Lindsey Turrentine: And Tom, what would you use this for if you owned it
Tom Honeyands: It's still not quite powerful enough for me to switch as my everyday laptop I edit 4k videos for my channel on The Tech Chap. And so this is sort of a pro Suma portable ultra book it's still it's got a graphics boost obviously a slight performance boost solid battery life but and great for photoshopping 1080p video anything but you're still not really going to be good for gaming you might get 50 FPS at 720p, but it's just a good old round travel work laptop does pretty much everything you need and it's it's just a stunning device.
Lindsey Turrentine: It's really beautiful. Eli, you have the two products on the stage that are not rectangle. Let's talk about the smaller not rectangle first. This is exciting the pulse the JPL pulse for a portable speaker. portable speaker this is actually fun.
Eli Etherton: You're like How can a speaker be fun? Oh, we're gonna have fun with the speaker. So it's a JBL pulse 4 as a Bluetooth speaker same kind of thing you've probably seen a lot open Oh, nice fine box. And you get the speaker can I get the XL the pixel for XL? Yes. So basically I show this thing turns on. Oh come on turn on for me
Lindsey Turrentine: Guys. This is a live demo. This is amazing stuff.
Eli Etherton: Oh, yeah. Basically. So you got your normal speaker really good, really loud has bass has trouble the whole nine yards. The cool part about it is if we turn it on, we find the power supply. You get the cool lights going on. Look at those cool lights. And then what you do is we do this royalty free music because that's what you need. Music please and we start playing this
Eli Etherton: Uh oh, oh no.
Eli Etherton: There we go. Bluetooth.
Eli Etherton: I think that's kind of cool and FD and so you got the whole color thing going on
Eli Etherton: And pull it out
Eli Etherton: and again water and electronics everybody knows how well that goes together. So that's a JBL What is it pure for
Lindsey Turrentine: Somebody yesterday called this the the modern lava lamp and I think that's a really good description. It's like a cross between a lava lamp and a coffee tumbler. That sounds good. All right, will you show us the other not rectangle. This is Yeah, robot vacuum. You've seen them before. But this does something really special.
Eli Etherton: So this is the normal. So this is a shark. So again, you take a look at this and go, Oh, wow, it's a Roomba, because that's what people actually do in the real world. And for the most part, it does, what room was do goes around it. It vacuums up, everything on the floor goes back to its base station. What makes the shark really awesome, because if you were thinking about getting a shark because you were lazy, are you thinking about getting a Roomba because you're lazy, it might be thinking, Well, I'm too lazy for a Roomba, because I'm going to have to empty out the container of the Roomba. What's cool about this is you have a base station, the base station actually vacuums all the stuff out of the shark. And so this stores up to a month's worth of dirt. So if you're so lazy, that a Roomba doesn't do it for you, you can get one of these things. It literally will go around for a month. And then after 30 days, you empty this thing out and you go about your business. So this is the Dark again, kind of cool interesting with robotics. And again, the whole idea of how you can you make them even easier for people.
Lindsey Turrentine: I think that the the robotic sector has leaned into robotic vacuums for a long time, as a good example of what a home robot can do and not done a lot more with it. The self emptying seems to be the first iteration and the 10 years vacuums have started to change. Let's talk a little bit more about technology that takes care of things for you. I think that the phones in particular are trying to step into predicting what you're going to want to do with them. Jacklyn does this. How does the software work with the one plus is it does it get fast updates? Is it going to anticipate what you need?
Jacklyn Dallas: Yeah, so one of the great things about buying a phone from one plus is software reliability. So you see a lot with other competitors like the Samsung phones, they're great when you get them but a couple years down the line and they're either not Supporting software updates, or they're getting them really delayed. So well, that could be missing a feature that you want one day, it could also be missing a really important security update. So let's say that sounds like figures out or Google figures out that there's something that can offer a breach and your security sampling may take months to push it out to you, you don't have that with the one plus, so they get really regular software updates and guaranteed updates as well, which is a great thing. And then in terms of how this phone uses, like smart artificial intelligence, you're seeing it in ways of like night mode. So if you've ever taken a photo at a concert or at night, and it just looks terrible, it's because the sensors so small, can't really let in a ton of light, night mobile really help improve that. And going a little bit more about the camera. It's one of the most important features this year and it's also a feature that a lot of consumers are really looking into. This has a great camera setup. So if we can get the steady cam over here.
Jacklyn Dallas: I'll show you guys a little bit of what the camera can do.
Jacklyn Dallas: Cool. Alright, so right now we're looking at the main camera so you can see yourself in this image. And then we can actually pop out to a wide camera. And instantly we can get a lot more in the image. So that's one of the biggest trends this year that you're going to see the iPhone 11 Pro has it, this phone has it as well, so you can really get a lot more in. And then as I mentioned before, it does have that selfie camera, and it's actually decently wide. So if we flip over to this selfie camera here, we got a grip selfie. Yeah, we should get a good selfie. I think we should. Let's do that. Okay, so we're going to get all of you guys in the background here and you can see how wide it is.
Jacklyn Dallas: So now if we look back at the selfie, you guys can see that you can get a lot in so with a typical iPhone, you're really not able to get a lot in So have you ever taken a group selfie and like your entire heads cut off, right like what's going on? This phone doesn't have that problem. It's a pretty wide angle lens so it gets a lot done that you needed to And when we compare it to something like the iPhone 11 Pro, and I would love your thoughts on this. I think that the iPhone 11 Pro is like the best camera on the market this year. I disagree. Okay, let's see here, we
Kris Carlon: probably have the Fyde half the people in this auditorium on this one. If you head over to Android authority.com we have crazy camera comparisons with the pixels and the iPhones and all the other major Branch from Samsung and so on. I still think the pixel ages out the iPhone in terms of detail resolution, things like the old and older nerdy camera stuff that you probably don't really care about. But on a basic spec level, the versatility I mean this has three cameras. This has two
Jacklyn Dallas: So what about for video, I think I prefer the iPhone for video,
Kris Carlon: It would appear that Google doesn't care about video at all. So there's four cameras on this right three on the back, one on the front. And every single one of them is a 12 megapixel sensor, the consistency and colors and everything is amazing across all of them. The video is great, there's 4k 60 if that means that Everybody on every single camera and on this phone This doesn't have 4k 60 on any it's this is not a phone for video people this is I still prefer the photos from the pixel but it's so close it's it's negligible it sort of depends what you like iPhones a warmer these are cooler things like that but it's
Tom Honeyands: It's really interesting that we've been talking backstage quite a lot about this obviously that the pixel is great in a lot of ways but it misses out on a lot of key features like that 4k front video 4k 60 bag video that charging isn't that fast.
Kris Carlon: Well, it's the same it's the same as the iPhone
Tom Honeyands: One plus we're always in Samsung's
Jacklyn Dallas: Extremely fast charging.
Kris Carlon: Yeah, these are both very slow. The iPhone just got the same charging this had four years ago, this far beyond behind what
Tom Honeyands: it does fundamentally make a difference of how you use the phone. If the software is there, the cameras there and yes, the battery life sucks, unfortunately, but it's actually getting better. I'm using it every day. That is the Forbes Eleni adaptive battery through you know, it's a sort of recognition, pattern use of how you use it. Phone. And last couple of weeks, I've seen an extra couple of hours of use a day. So that's pretty impressive how that all that learnings going on behind the scenes. Yeah. So I get the criticism of the pixel. I really do. But I think it works on a fundamental level. And yes, it misses some bells and whistles, but I wonder how many people ring those bells? Really?
Jacklyn Dallas: Yeah. Fair computational photography. That pixel is actually still the best camera like it can tell you what you need Missy, and it will show you dynamic exposure. The night mode is excellent. Yeah. So I do agree with you in that sense.
Kris Carlon: Yeah, the pixels always done a lot with just one cameras, right. Everyone else throws hardware at the problem. Yeah, Google just throw software of the problem. So the fact that they even have two lenses now is it's a big deal. So I mean, Google knows what you need, and Apple's very good at telling you what you need. And so you mix the two of them together and they influence each other, whether you like it or not, and
Lindsey Turrentine: I love the term computational photography. For those of you who don't know what that means, it basically means that the software on that phone is trying to fix You're out what you want that photo to look like and simply just changing it changing the pixels on the on the phone itself. Let me ask you about that AI. The pixel does some interesting live transcription.
Kris Carlon: It does. Yes,
Lindsey Turrentine: Which I think is a fun thing to talk about.
Kris Carlon: Yes, like Google's actually condensed the whole English language. I think it's only American English language at this time. But it's all on the phone locally, there's nothing in the cloud or anything like that. So it can actually transcribe basically in real time. So when you talk to your phone, it's instant. And there's a recorder app if you ever record yourself or other people for interviews or something like that, which obviously we do. It's incredible. I mean, it will real time, transcribe everything that's happening. And then you can search those recordings. So you can just like a search bar search for a particular word or phrase, and it'll pull it up instantly. It's pretty impressive stuff.
Lindsey Turrentine: That's pretty interesting. Yeah, Tom, I see you moving that screen around. Yes. 
Tom Honeyands: I'm really interested. How many people use a two in one laptop like that? I wonder if we all the time, I mean, obviously with these two and ones, you've got clamshell, I'm trying to get this right, you've got tent mode,
Lindsey Turrentine: Tent mode
Tom Honeyands: That mode, tablet mode, I maybe I maybe I see that and if you want to on a plane or something and you want to have it like that, I wonder how many people use it like that. But one of the things I want to talk about very quickly is this project Athena thing, it's an Intel thing. And you get I'm sure you all know the word ultra book. And I think I believe it was originally sort of a marketing term from Intel. And it was to describe a thin and light laptop with touch capabilities, and you will know what an ultra book means. So what they're doing, which I think is actually pretty interesting is this project Athena Innovation Program, which is such a catchy name, and it's supposed to guarantee a certain standard certain spec, touchscreen, fast SSD, a 10th, Jim processes, Wi Fi, six, Thunderbolt three, all these like really premium features that if you want to future proof, high end laptop, you're going to want and obviously this is This table is filled with a bunch of bunch of nerds really and, and most people don't know what NVMESSD is, and nor should they, nor should they know what that is. But hopefully, we'll see how this works out. But hopefully, you can see a laptop See, it's part of this new platform, honestly, you should have just called the ultra Book Two point. And then you'll know that it's going to be a really high end machine. And I think that's great for the consumer. Because it's so complicated. We were talking on the unboxing days, the other day, you've got you know, resolution the SSD is the hard drive, you could, you can have all the specs, but you then you miss out, you get an iPhone three, instead of an ice seven or you get a full HD Roland 4k, the so many things to consider. And buying buying phones is relatively easy because you it's much of a much, much, much less a lot but with laptops, there's so much to consider. And I think it's really hard for the consumer but that the turn one is one of the first in this new wave of productivity and laptops and I think is pretty exciting.
Kris Carlon: Yeah, you have to remember to the we're paid to complain about really insignificant stuff. That that is our entire reason for being. Right now we find the one thing that's not perfect, and we just complain about it even if no one else cares,
Lindsey Turrentine: Eli. So you're looking at that form factor. You talk about computers a lot to how much do you think the industry or we are all going to see radically changing form factors as we move toward things like foldable phones, more of these maybe gimmicky, maybe great changes.
Eli Etherton: I don't think we're moving to foldable phones. That's adorable, a bad idea.
Eli Etherton: So I think if you look at technology, if you look at computers, if you look at this thing, this thing, basically it looks like a computer looked like 40 years ago, I remember my father was a engineer for the government. He used to log home, the suitcase portable computers that had a screen that had a drive that had a keyboard, they didn't have a mouse and 40 years, we've actually gotten a mouse. So I think there's this idea that we're going to go These radical new folding phones and all that kind of stuff. I would actually argue I think we're just going to get more screens like so for me when I'm at my house. Everybody's laughing about it yesterday, I use a crappy ass MacBook Pro for my emails to do my video editing and my real production stuff. I use an iMac pro to look at my news, I look at my iPhone. So instead of having convertible computers that nobody wants, I think we're just gonna have a lot of these different screens. You're just gonna sit there you're gonna log in and get a big screen and get a little screen. I think that's how it's gone
Tom Honeyands: I I respect but I love the innovation of the galaxy Folz something like two fold. No one should buy one this year. But I think it's so interesting. And I think Jen to next year when it's cheaper is better. It doesn't break as easily. It's just good to see something different as we guys know, we do camera comparisons with zooming in 300% see if there's a slight difference in shadows we're talking about megapixel.
Kris Carlon: Yeah, I mean, this is this that basically the same thing. You pick any decent find these And they all do the same nail the basics. So I'm glad someone is innovating and doing crazy stuff even though Yeah, nobody should buy a foldable fine right now.
Someone: But I also feel like foldable phones, like I just spent 30 days with the galaxy Folz. Even though it is fragile, it actually is very good for generation one product like they got so much right with it. It's basically if you don't know what it is, it's this two in one form factor where you have a little screen up front, but then you can unfold it and get a big screen when you want one. So it makes it so easy to read a book when you're on a train or only bring one device when you're traveling. And you can get a bigger screen for emailing. So I actually think that the galaxy fold down a lot, right? The only things that they really didn't get right, can be really heavily improved in generation two and we see sampling a lot take these steps for innovation that other companies just don't so I think running against that innovation isn't good for the industry, and I feel like foldable phones in some way are gonna have an impact on our lives in the future.
Lindsey Turrentine: Alright, so you heard it here, you're getting more screens, and they're going to be more interesting. Thank you so much Fair for us and for taking these out of boxes for us. It's been really fun.
Jacklyn Dallas: Yeah. Thank you. 
Someone: Thank you. 
Someone: Thank you very much.