
The world has reached an inflection point in which digital technology is being used as both a powerful tool and formidable weapon. Our next guest is tasked with leading Microsoft, one of the world's biggest and most influential companies, through the intersection between technology and society, including cyber security, privacy, ethics, and human rights. Here to discuss new approaches to manage this era, and the steps that companies of all sizes can take to accept greater responsibility and partner with governments to shape the future, and the author of a quite remarkable book, please give a huge warm welcome to the president of Microsoft, Brad Smith.
Thank you, Paddy. Thanks to all of you for being here this morning. Yeah, this has become a tremendous tradition, if you will. Every November, the world comes to Lisbon, and we meet each other at the Web Summit. You know, just two months from now, we're all going to be looking at our browsers, picking up our papers, and the discussion is going to be about the new decade. Because this December 31, will not only turn the page of the calendar to a new year, but to the first year of the 2020s. And I want to talk today about what this new decade means for all of us who are connected to technology, what it means, first, for where technology is going, but more than that, what it means in terms of that intersection that Paddy referred to. The intersection between technology and society. As we think about the decade ahead of us, I actually think it's helpful to start by just focusing for a moment on the fundamental advances of this decade, the advances we'll all be building on. I think when historians look back at this decade, they will see that there were four fundamental changes that together really transform the nature of computing. There were ongoing advances in computing power, as there had been for year after year, for a number of decades before. But the cloud really changed the nature of access to computing. You know, it was only in 2010, when this decade began that Microsoft actually first stored a customer's data in a data center. And yet today as the decade comes to a close, cloud computing is ubiquitous all around the world. In part, it has reduced the cost of access to technology. It has made it an operational rather than capital expense, and it has led to explosion in data. We will start the next decade with literally 25 times as much digital data on this planet as we had in the year 2010. And advances in artificial intelligence, especially around deep learning, around neural networks, have transformed our ability to put that data to work. It's a daunting collection of transformative changes. And at one level, it's exciting to think about what lies ahead, and it makes it somewhat challenging to predict what will come next. But I think a few trends are clear. Over the next 10 years, we'll similarly see four big advances at a minimum. We'll see classical computing, digital computing, start to combine with quantum computing to unlock some of the world's most formidable computational and scientific challenges. We're going to see more data centers and more countries serving more kinds of customers. We're going to see innovations in the storage and processing of data. We better, because unless we innovated new ways to store data, we will never keep pace with the ongoing explosion in the creation of it. We're going to see 5G. Over the next decade we'll see 5G becomes 6G. And what it will really mean is that computing will become ambient. It will be in every device, it will be in every corner, it will be in every part of our homes. In a sense, it will become more like electricity all around us without our necessarily thinking about it. And all of this is going to be used to fuel more AI. Indeed, over the next decade, we'll start to talk about AGI, artificial general intelligence. Not the singularity of science fiction lore, but the ability of artificial intelligence to operate outside of singular narrow silos, and increasingly work across scenarios, enabling humans to discover insights in multiple disciplines. All of this adds up to an extraordinary era of change, an extraordinary time of opportunity. But you might ask if all of that is true, why are we living in such an age of anxiety? Because let's face it, we are. And it doesn't matter where you live. So often you read the news and people are talking about globalization, income inequality, immigration or trade. But the truth is, all of these are enabled by technology. It's as if the world is so focused on the symptoms that we often don't talk enough about the fundamental causes of change in the world today. And I think increasingly, the world is looking at us. It is looking at the big companies. But in truth, it's looking at all of us who work in technology and asking us, what is it that we are trying to do? And I think what the world wants of us is to move technology forward as we are, but also to think broadly, to advance technology in a way that preserves values that are timeless. Values, like fundamental human rights and respect, and opportunity for people. And I think if we're going to address what the world wants of us, we actually at times have to start by acknowledging the problems before us. The truth is, technology has been an extraordinary asset for the world. But as we chose in the title of our book that Paddy
Hey, there we go. The microphones back. Any tool can cease working as that microphone just showed the real point here, any tool can also become a weapon. A simple tool can become a weapon, a broom can be used to sweep the floor, or a broom can be used to hit somebody over the head. The truth is, the more powerful the tool the more formidable the weapon. When we look to the decade ahead, in many respects, AI will be a tool of the sort the world has seldom seen before. And hence it can become a weapon as well. When you look back at the first half of the 20th century, it was a time that was transformed by one invention above all else, the combustion engine. It led to the car, the airplane, the truck and the tractor. It changed every part of every economy. I think it's fair to say That over the next three decades from now to 2015 ai is likely to play a similar role in the global economy. And so it really calls on us to think as never before about what this means in terms of broader societal implications. As we do so I think it's actually helpful to start by reflecting on a fundamental fact. These are not new questions. This technology may be new, but the questions themselves are as old as technology itself. It's something I had the opportunity to witness firsthand earlier this year on a trip to the Vatican in Rome. This is quite possibly the oldest institution on continental Europe. And when you go there, you may have the opportunity to visit the library the Sistine library next to the Sistine Chapel. When I went out had the opportunity to go into a private room that was part of the library and see two books in particular that are not typically on display. But they are books that speak to us into the future of technology. The first book was printed in the year 1450. It was the 24th Bible that you honest Gutenberg, printed with his new printing press. It was a fascinating thing to see because the real message was that technology had led to the printing press, and the printing press, change Christianity across Europe, it changed religion. Because no longer Did someone have to sit in a church and listen to a priest read a Bible. It became possible for more people to have books, to learn to read to interpret the Bible themselves. But there was a second book I saw that was In some ways more poignant still, it was written 150 years later in the year 1600. It was a collection of volume of letters written by Galileo to the pope to protest his innocence. And as I flipped through the pages, what one saw was that each day Galileo had used his telescope, and had sketched on a piece of paper the position of those sons sunspots. And you can flip through the pages and what you saw was that the sunspots were moving and hence the sun was rotating. It's how Galileo made the case in part for his innocence. But his story in many ways, was almost the opposite of Gutenberg. Gutenberg had a story of how technology had spread religion. Galileo had a story about how technology had collided with it. And what it really causes one to appreciate his That every new technology has these ripple effects that impact every part of society, including religion, philosophy, politics, and economics. Yeah, we have not a telescope or a printing press. But AI.
It's interesting to remember that AI while it's all the talk and 2019 first became part of the conversation in 1956. That was the first time that academics and researchers came together at Dartmouth College and started to talk about it and coined the phrase. But even this was six years after, in some ways, the first science fiction account of what AI might turn out to mean for people because there was six years earlier that Isaac Asimov wrote his book run around. It included a short story about the three laws of robotics laws that were designed to be ethical principles to govern how machines would make decisions on themselves by themselves. If you happen to see the 2004 movie starring Will Smith called iRobot. You would remember that it didn't go so well. But you didn't have to start going to the movies in 2004 to think about AI and how decisions might be made by machines. If you had gone to a movie theater in 1968, you would have seen Stanley Kubrick's film 2001 A Space Odyssey, where astronauts were orbiting Jupiter. And we're finding that an AI driven computer was not all together enthusiastic about letting them back into the spacecraft. The scene that you can see here.
Oh
I read you.
Open the pod bay doors Hal
I'm sorry, Dave, I'm afraid I can't do that.
What's the problem?
I think you know what the problem is just as well as I do. What are you talking about?
This mission is too important for me to allow you to jeopardize it.
Think of all the movies you've seen, that actually have had a common plot is called humans invent machines that can make decisions for themselves. Machines make decisions for themselves. Machines stop listening to humans, machines start enslaving humans or even killing them. That's basically every Terminator movie you've ever seen. That is what the public has grown up thinking about AI. But it raises a very important question, one that should speak to us one that is in some ways, a fundamental question of our times. We shouldn't just ask what computers can do. We need to ask what they should do. And we need to think hard. Because we are the first generation in the history of humanity, all of us alive today in this room today, who will empower machines to make decisions that previously were made only by people. If we get it wrong, every generation that follows us will pay a price. That's why it's so important that it Microsoft and IT companies across our industry, we're focused on issues of ethics and AI defining and implementing ethical principles. It's a good example of the kinds of conversations we need to have. But I think we've also reached a point where we need to step back and recognize that in addition to asking ourselves new questions, we need a fundamentally new approach. To address the issues that technology is creating for society, more than ever, we can't just think about the exciting things that a computer can do. We need to step up, we need to put guardrails on the technology we're creating to protect against their abuse, or their misuse, or their unintended consequences. And we need to work more with governments because we need governments to move faster. Perhaps as much as anything else. As exciting as it is to think about technology to come to Web Summit and think about building a business. I believe we will always serve ourselves best if we put the public first. The truth is we work in an industry that has enormous potential for profit. If we can do a great job of thinking about the public interest First, if we can serve the public, there will be plenty of opportunity for profit But we need to think broadly about what it means to serve the public. And as we do, I think we need to think about the future but also learn the lessons of the past. There's a saying that says history doesn't repeat itself. But it often rhymes. And I think it does. And that's a powerful tool. And we can apply the tests and lessons of history by learning from some of the people who experienced it. For me, one person I had the opportunity to meet speaks to me every day in terms of what it means to create technology. His name is Hans Yoakam Sheckler. He lives in Berlin. When he was 24 years old in the year 1968, he spent seven months in this prison in East Berlin. He was in this prison because that week, there were takes rolling through Prague bringing the process Spring to an end. He was in prison because he and three of his friends were unhappy to see those tanks bring the Prague Spring to an end. They wrote up little leaflets and they handed them out in the street where they were spotted by agents for the Stasi. And they were arrested and sent away. But think about the world today. When people want to change the world when they want to communicate when they with the world when they want to organize with their friends. They no longer hand out a leaflet. They post a text, they send an email, they post a blog.
It shows how fundamentally important it is for all of us to protect privacy, a fundamental human right. In an era where everything has gone digital. It's wide part of what it will take in the 2020s is to address a new generation of challenge. Is that will be fundamental to protecting these timeless values. It's why I believe will not only need a new wave of technology, but a new wave of privacy protection as well. A new wave of security protection, a new wave of measures to protect the ethics and human rights associated with AI. And if we're going to think as broadly as the public expects, I think we also need to recognize that as technology moves forward, we need to stop leaving people behind. In country after country you see the same thing in the United States, there are more than 20 million Americans that lack access to broadband. It's not a phenomenon that is unique to the United States. You see it in a country like Ireland, the birthplace of the Web Summit. In Ireland, there are more than a billion people who lack access to broadband We still have half the world almost it doesn't connect to the internet at all. And we need to recognize that with our broadband, a community cannot attract jobs. It cannot persuade a business to open a new factory. It cannot be at the frontiers of education, or medicine. The world today requires that we broaden the reach of technology to move everyone forward. We need to find inspiration from the past because we need to remember that a century ago the world face similar challenges. And it conquered them in the United States and took the leadership of a woman a woman named Luisa and May Maher who worked with the rural electrification administration to go out and visit rural community after rural community and persuade people to get the most out of electricity. It took a government initiative in partnership with the private sector to bring electricity to every corner of America to every community in Ireland, to most of the countries of the world. The world has acted with high ambition before and we need to sustain that commitment to ambition today. And here to I think that there is inspiration all around us. This is where technology is a great tool. Every day one of the people I could find inspiration from is somebody I get to work with. Her name is Ann Taylor. She works at Microsoft. When she was a student at the Kentucky School for the Blind. She began to develop an interest in computer science. She wanted to learn how to code and although she was blind, she found her way to a local public school where she had the opportunity to learn that put her on the path towards a degree in computer science to a career in computing to a Heck Stefan to create an application that works on your phone that enables a blind person to see through the camera and be informed by AI connected to the cloud of what is going on in the world around them. And what we've seen with our AI for Good initiative at Microsoft is that in fact, AI is, in some ways, one of the most powerful tools we have to advance accessibility, to address the sustainability challenges for the planet, to strengthen the people who are providing humanitarian relief around the world, to those as well who are preserving the world's cultural heritage. In short, we need to address our problems head on but also show that we are committed to using technology to help solve the world's big problems. And this brings me to the last person who I think brings inspiration to us all. His name is Nick Wise, he lives in the United Kingdom. He's focused on a problem that affects every one of us here today. The issues of overfishing, and sustainability for the world's oceans. Nick recognized that this was a problem that technology could help solve. He created a nonprofit to help solve it. You can see in this video, a little bit about his story, a story that I think in some ways connects to each of our stories as well.
There are key parts of the ocean ecosystem that are important for all life to survive the creation of oxygen, the creation of bio mass, and the creation of therefore food is important to everything on the planet. protecting them is vitally important to our future.
When I see all of this beauty, it's just hard to believe that the biodiversity of the oceans are at risk. Because humans have overfished
humanity has pushed 90% of our fish stocks either to the maximum sustainable yield or beyond.
Costa Rica is 92% oceans. And that's the part that we are least protecting or investigating. And that's why also illegal fishery is having an impact in our oceans and in our economy and in our environment. That's why we're taking action technology is key
At ocean mind we receive billions of data points, satellite images, optical imagery, radar imagery, infrared data, Microsoft ai, and filters through all of the data that we have to understand fishing activities. We find the suspicious activities so that our analysts can look and investigative and governments can enforce more effectively.
Now we have data we can identify patterns of illegal fishery and support the Coast Guard, but also the fishery authority and environmental authority. We have more robust instrument to accomplish our mission. Information is key knowledge is key experiences and sharing them is key. We are creating a culture.
We are making our first API available through Microsoft ai, to anyone who wants to help fight illegal fishing.
So these are the illegal fishing nets that have been captured by the Coast Guard just over the last three weeks.
The time for taking care of the oceans is now we want to work with the people to understand the importance of conservation. If we are protecting one area is because we want to have more fish is because we need to have healthy ocean It's to protect us against some of the new and very important impacts from climate change as well. It's time for us to think outside the box and actually use more technology to help us.
We have the capabilities to change the needle on the sustainability of fishing. I am convinced that we will make a difference.
Please join me in welcoming and thanking Nick Wise.
I think his story is for a lot of you your story. Because a year ago at Web Summit, ocean mind was all of four months old. It had nine employees A year later, it has doubled in size it is working with governments around the world. But I think most importantly, it's using the power of AI and harnessing the world's data with a vision that I believe will become real. So that by next year when the Web Summit takes place, again, ocean mine will be actually using all of the world's data about vessels on the seas, analyzing them in real time, sharing them with governments, and helping the world's governments, in fact, improve the sustainability of the world's oceans. It shows what technology can do. But I think it shows one thing more. It shows that in fact, we each have a role to play. Whether you're an older company or a newer one, whether you're a startup or a company as big as Microsoft Whether you're a for profit in our enterprise or a nonprofit, like ocean mind, whether you come from civil society or from government, whether you're from Europe or from somewhere helps around the world, the truth is, if we're going to address the great problems that the world has put in front of us, if we're going to ensure that technology plays its role in a responsible way. We each need to play our role. And we each need to work together. That's what the Web Summit is all about. That's what the first decade of the Web Summit has helped accomplish. That is our challenge. It's our opportunity for the decade ahead. Thank you very much.