
Casey Lau: How does one of the largest technology companies in the world stay ahead of the curve? Our next guest is driving innovation within Samsung. With over 300,000 full time employees in 80 countries and an annual revenue of over 210 billion dollars last year. He's creating a new model of corporate innovation dedicated to a deep understanding of tech trends and consumer appetite. Please welcome Samsung's Chief Innovation Officer and president of Samsung Next, David Eun
David Eun: Hello Web Summit. Thank you, Casey. It is great to be here. I'm so thrilled. If you're like me, many of us are here at Web Summit because we're fascinated if not obsessed with technology and how it can change our lives. As humans, we all need a place to sleep, eat and retreat from the world around us to relax and recharge. And I'm here to tell you today that this is all poised for significant transformation. One that many of you in this room may actually help lead.
David Eun: What do you see here?
David Eun: This is a house.
David Eun: This actually looks similar to the one I grew up in, in the state of Virginia in the United States where I'm from. Take a moment and think about the house where you grew up. Maybe it was a flat, a multi floor apartment or a detached house much like this one. Whatever it was, it hopefully wasn't just a roof over your head or simply a place to keep your things.
David Eun: For most of us, it represents so much more. It was a home. A place where some of the most important moments in our lives took place. So, what makes a house a home? I believe the answer is experiences. Experiences are what truly makes a house into home.
David Eun: So what our experiences. They're the collection of rich moments, emotions, and connections in your home. The sights, the sounds, and even the smells that can become cherished memories locked in our brains forever.
David Eun: When I look at this picture, I see the opportunity to deliver experiences that will bring people closer together, built on a foundation of technology and innovation, the likes of which we have never seen before. And delivering these kind of experiences in the home is the opportunity I want to talk to you about today.
David Eun: But before we dive into the future of experiences, let's pause and review where we've been.
David Eun: We've seen three significant phases of technological developments in the home.
David Eun: The first phase introduced utilitarian devices and appliances built for convenience. The first black and white TV was introduced in 1927. And the first color TV came in 1954. These provided us a window to the outside world, informing and entertaining us, giving us images were before we had only sounds from the radio to spark our imaginations. And we know that TV very quickly became a global phenomenon. Just two years later, by 1956 the Summer Olympic Games were first broadcast around the world and we've never looked back.
David Eun: Electric powered vacuums as we know them today were introduced in 1908 making a physically demanding household chore easier and more efficient. Today we now have robot vacuum cleaner floors without any human assistance. The icebox was the first form of refrigeration in the 1800s. Modern refrigerators that use electricity and Freon were introduced in the 1920s. As we all know, refrigerators gave us the ability to store and preserve food longer, so we could eat better meals.
David Eun: And of course, the microwave oven was actually first sold in 1946. Using radar technology developed during World War Two. The microwave gave us the ability to cook a wide range of foods prepared in a much shorter period of time. Now, each of these devices revolutionized our lives. But each stood alone serving a single mechanical purpose. The second phase began more recently, connecting our devices and appliances to the internet, leveraging sensors and software to bring it all together, giving us what is now referred to as the connected home. Wi Fi has enabled the second phase making the connected home possible, because it removes the barrier of needing physical connections through wires. And with the advent of 5g, the percentage of connected devices in the home will continue to grow. In fact, industry experts Project 5g has the potential to be 10 times even 100 times faster than 4g.
David Eun: So in the future connected devices will help us become more aware What is inside and outside our homes? For example, the smart camera lets us see who's at the front door, whether we're home or not. And we can now control hundreds of different types of devices connected to the internet, starting with something as simple as turning on or off any light when we're away. By 2020 It's estimated there will be some 30 billion connected devices, generating a staggering 40 zettabytes of data. For perspective, this is the equivalent of 34,000,000,000,00 3 minutes songs.
David Eun: So in the near future, the question won't be how many devices are connected? The question will actually be how many devices are not connected. And now we have intelligent interfaces that can control these connected devices to mobile apps, and voice assistance. These allow us to create custom routines that control everything from the lighting and temperature and music to our exact preferences. The use of voice assistance is forecasted to triple over the next few years, with digital voice assistance and 8 billion devices by 2023. As most of us know, the majority of voice assistants live on smartphones and speakers today. But I believe in the future, it's conceivable that most every device and appliance will have voice assistance built into them. And this will enable true personalization, further enhancing the transformation from a house into a home.
David Eun: By providing utility in the forms of connecting These objects to the internet. We've built a great technological foundation. This foundation prepares us for the third phase of innovation into the home.
David Eun: So what's next? Experiences?
David Eun: You may be wondering why do I believe experiences are in the next phase of evolution of the home?
David Eun: There are a few good reasons.
David Eun: First is the fact that people are eating out. They're traveling. They're going to live concerts more and more. In fact, consumer spending has grown three times faster on experience, rather than things. People want experiences they can remember and share with others. 48% of millennials say they attend live events just so they have something to share. Social media afterwards. And not surprisingly, live attendance is on the rise. For example, over one half of the US population attended a live event last year. Now a 20 year study by Cornell concluded that happiness derived from experiences is more enduring than happiness gain from buying things. If you're like me, this resonates, and rings true. People are excited to talk about experiences shared with others law and share them with others long after their over. In fact, experiences are so important that entire industries are reinventing themselves to meet this demand. Look no further than retail and fitness and on and on. Now, to be clear, people will still buy goods but they'll do so more for the experiences they provide Rather than status objects onto themselves, and I really believe that technology in the home is ready to undergo its own reinvention. People want their devices to be more than just amazing connected things. But they want them to be creators and enablers of these experiences. This future is possible because the foundation of connected devices, along with new technologies is bringing the digital and the physical worldstogether.
David Eun: This will allow experiences normally associated with being outside of the home. inside the home experiences covering everything from fitness and health, eating at restaurants and cooking and interacting with colleagues, friends and close relatives as if they were in the same room.
David Eun: So now what do you see?
David Eun: I see a blueprint for a home of the future, where rooms are reimagined and the boundaries between the inside and the outside world come together. This isn't just a kitchen. It's a place that will intelligently provide everyone living in your home with the meal planning and preparation to enable a healthier and happier lifestyle. And these aren't just kitchen appliances that simply store cook and keep your food fresh. They will become your nutritionist, your personal chef, and your shopping assistant. Your Pantry in your refrigerator will know what foods you have on hand and begin to understand your favorite snacks and go to ingredients to suit your dietary needs. Think of your fridge as your very own personalized food DJ. And by DJ I mean dish Jackie. That's where you're supposed to laugh, whipping up intelligent food playlist weekly, and delivering ingredients and meal kits that can quickly and easily be delivered right to your door. In fact, by 2025, the global meal kit delivery service market is expected to reach nearly $9 billion. Imagine the opportunity to harness the food ecosystem intelligently through your smart kitchen to help you shop, eat fresher ingredients and even minimize food waste. We at Samsung nest believe in this opportunity so much that we recently acquired UK based whisk, which is built a smart food platform connecting food publishers, retails retailers and consumers around the world. Machine learning analyzes how millions of Whiskey users discover and interact with recipes and ingredients, helping provide personalized recommendations. Imagine cooking your favorite childhood dish along with your grandparents or a favorite chef, following recipes using simple hand gestures and voice commands to control the experience while you cook. When you're ready to prepare your meal, you're connected appliances will work together guiding you through the timing and the instructions of multiple recipes from start to finish. ensuring your dishes come out in the right order and at the perfect temperature for you and your guests.
David Eun: This isn't just a bathroom.
David Eun: It will be transformed into a wellness and health center constantly checking in and sampling key health indicators of your overall well being, keeping you informed and holding you accountable to your health goals. ordinary objects like the toothbrush, the mirror, the toilet, and even the floor tiles will work together to capture key health indicators in real time, sampling a spectrum of different health data points, providing you a complete picture of how you are doing. And this is no longer a simple bathroom mirror. It will give you and your doctor an in depth look at your overall health rather than just one checkup a year or going to the doctor when something is already wrong. Your Wellness Center will provide continuous health care monitoring, utilizing powerful AI to process your data enabling early detection of potential health issues and connect you to your doctor instantly. Now you'll be able to check to see if your child needs those stitches or perform a complete body scan to assess that suspicious mole on your back. With global healthcare expended, spent estimated to reach over $10 trillion by 2022. The opportunity to to provide more efficient and effective services is significant and obvious.
David Eun: This isn't just a living room.
David Eun: We envision that it will become a place that brings the world to you. The speakers, the lights, and the display will work together to bring the room to life.
David Eun: And this isn't just going to be a TV to watch shows and movies. It will be window to the world allowing you to instantly connect with your loved ones and friends as if they were in the same room.
David Eun: I think we all know that video communications is becoming a preferred method of communication. And millions and millions of video calls are happening every day. We're clearly becoming more comfortable with incorporating video into our daily lives. So think about the potential to bring video into the home in more immersive ways. Excited grandparents will now be able to experience their grandchild first steps no matter where they are. And parents will be able to keep in touch with their children when they go off to university.
David Eun: Whether their children want it or not.
David Eun: Wouldn't it be great to watch the final of the World Cup with your friends, tracking key statistics and celebrating as goals are scored the potential to bring outside experiences into the home is almost endless.
David Eun: And this isn't just an automatic vacuum cleaner.
David Eun: It can become your personal security guard on site at all times, making sure everyone and everything important to you is safe. Maybe it will become a personal paramedic, who lives with an elderly parent and can call for help when needed. With the world's growing elderly population, this will become more timely and needed in the future. With the advancement of computer vision and machine learning, will be able to understand our surroundings and unique and exciting new ways. What if this was a home inspector that analyzes each rooms environment, letting me know where your home is losing energy.
David Eun: This would help us save on energy costs and make our homes More eco friendly.
David Eun: Now, let's pull back a bit further. For a better perspective. What if your living room could fully immerse you in the action? Putting you inside the stadium surrounded by other screaming fans? Wouldn't this be amazing? In the future these experiences will be enabled through the fusion of hardware, software and services. They will change not just the nature of the things in our homes like TVs and the walls themselves, but will also change the use of the rooms of the home. Perhaps the holodeck from Star Trek is not as far off as we think. This will all evolve what we think of as the Smart Home And one day in the future after a long day at work, you could easily spend the evening watching today's sunset, on a beach in Hawaii.
David Eun: Today, I've shared just a rough sketch of how we can bring outside experiences into the home. There is a real opportunity here for entrepreneurs, startups, companies of all shapes and sizes to create these future home experiences and services together. Let's build on this blueprint of the future together. And we can turn every house into a truly smart home. One filled with amazing experiences. connected, connect with us through email on Twitter or come by booth here Web Summit and let's start the conversation. Thank you.