
So incredible engineers and entrepreneurs from around the world are coming to work in Portugal. Meanwhile, incredible Portuguese entrepreneurs are building companies all over the world. All of you have traveled from across the world to be in Portugal for the next week. And so, we've invited two extraordinary entrepreneurs to tell you a little bit more about Portugal. Please welcome in conversation with Filomena Cautela of RTP, Michelle Zatlyn, founder of CloudFlare which recently went public on the New York Stock Exchange and Portugal's very own Daniela Braga, founder of DefinedCrowd.
Daniela and Michelle you have to, you have to allow me this. Make some noise Web Summit. Done, check, thank you.
It was a dream come true.
Was that from Eurovision?
Yes of course.
Okay, perfect.
It's reminiscence. It's all coming back to me. First of all, I'm going to open with a question just to explain a little bit who I am with. Is it fair, ladies, Michelle and Daniela, is it fair to say that I'm talking with possibly the two first women to become self made billionaires in their own country.
We agreed that we were not going to talk about this.
Yes, yes, is it true?
Not billioniares yet. But probably millionaires.
Right.
Well Cloudflare is public company now so you can easily go look up my, my share in the company and, and our market cap. I mean I think for us Cloudflare, we're working on a really big problem. We're very long term focused, we've been building Cloudflare for nine years. And I think that every day our whole team shows up every day to build an iconic company that solves real problems for our customers. And while I'm so proud of what we've accomplished, we're just getting started. And so, I mean if you do the math it's a possiblity some time in the far far distance
But it is true.
It, it is a possibility. It is in the art of possibility.
We have very little time. I just wanted to say Michelle, when I was, when I was reading your bio, your bio is absolutely fascinating and I wanted to share with all of you today. Michelle creates products people love. I love this. She has been named one of the top women to watch in technology by the Huffington Post and Inc magazine. We should totally hang out by the way. Co founder and COO of Cloudflare of course was selected by the Wall Street Journal as the most innovative internet technology company two years running. And a technology pioneer by the world's economic forum. Today, Cloudflare accelerates and protects more than 2 million web properties and it's moving its engineering division from North America to Lisbon, is this true? 
That's true. Yeah, no it's, we, so we're about. But thank you for those very kind words. We have 1,100 people around the world and we have a, we had a big office in London and we started to look out in San Francisco, Austin, Texas, London, and we started to say where else can we build an engineering hub, and we actually did a survey of 45 cities across Europe in the EMEA region.
Yes so why Lisbon?
And originally Lisbon wasn't on the top. If I had, when we started the project, I never thought Lisbon would've been the city we selected. But through good due diligence, it kept becoming wow, Lisbon's really interesting. The talent is amazing here, both engineers, the universities are incredible here. The local talent, all the Portuguese who have left to other countries around the world, the diaspora who want to come back. Yeah. The government has made some really great policies to encourage those folks internationally to come back through attractive income tax reductions. And they've also made really attractive policies for non Portuguese who want to come to live in this beautiful country with incredible weather. So by the end, we are basically saying Lisbon is like the bay area 50 years ago. High quality of life, incredible talent, the next heart of innovation in Europe and we want to bet on it. 
This was a local joke. See? 
Daniela, actually, actually you were born in Portugal.
And studied, made my basic formation here. 
So Daniela, for all us, for all you to know, is the founder and CEO of DefinedCrowd, one of the fastest growing startups in the AI space, has deep expertise in speech science. It is one of the world's leaders of crowdsourcing adoption in large enterprises. Dr. Braga, I love to call you Dr. Braga, it's so cool, created the data science team and shipped voice enabled products for clients like Samsung, Toyota, engineering, sorry, infrastructure around data collection processing ingestion instrumentation and discoverability I'm pretending I know what I'm talking about. But, it truly is truly amazing so why Portugal Daniella this is, this is the
First because I am Portuguese. And if I started, I started my company Seattle where I live for eight years, but I knew that my product had to be built in Portugal, because the tech talent is here. I know the quality of the universities. There. We were very lucky to be supported in from the beginning by the government by Startup Lisboa, there's an amazing ecosystem here, and machine learning, speech speech talents natural natural language processing software develop engineers product are all here. It's completely we're sell to fortune 500 companies with a product made in Portugal.
It's amazing. So, is it true that your company DefinedCrowd Yes, thank you. Yes. Yes, indeed. Indeed. Is it true that actually your diversity is really is a real reality in your in your company because it's true. There's 42% women in the world that maybe in tech, there's like what 5% 2%
I leave you know I come from a world of engineers I'm always the only woman in the room since I'm 22. And in reality, my company's 42% of women and we are not doing it on purpose. 
Yes, do it.
It is happening. Yes, all over the world, in our five offices already everywhere. People come to work because I suppose that they feel that they can be whoever they are, and sky is the limit in our company. 
Congratulations, Michelle Do you live this reality as well.
One of the things our CTO was based in in London he's here tonight hi john and he came to meet a lot of what before we made her decision to come to Lisbon came and met a lot of tech tech companies startups here in Lisbon to see like what it's like on the ground, you know, you kind of do your, your paper research but wanted to see what it was really like building a company here. And one thing that he noticed when he went to visit all these, these tech companies in Lisbon was like, wow, they are light years ahead and diversity they have diverse teams the diversity of talent, he just said it was just so noticeable compared to what he had seen both in London and in San Francisco. So I think that's a real testament to the country and the universities and and and to creating opportunities for everyone. So 
Thank you, Michelle I wanted to ask as well. What's the one thing actually this was this was the question you gave me. What's the one thing you think everyone sitting in this chairs should know, the thing is, what did you wish to know when you were sitting in one of these chairs?
Sure I have to when I was sitting in your chair nine years ago we started my company. The rate of which you learned as a founders best assets. Nobody knows what they're doing on day one, but the faster you can learn the better off you'll be the best founders are like sponges Hi we're learning and the second thing which is very, very appropriate for for 2019 is corporate governance is cool. So, take it seriously.
Very good piece of advice thank you Michelle, Daniela Do you have some advice for everyone sitting here tonight and hearing us.
Pick your investors wisely. Don't let, don't let them pick you and
Rule by not rule, but lead by model, do it. What do exactly what you expect your people to do, don't expect them to just create without seeing it. I guess those are my two cents,
Ladies. It was truly an honor to be with you. It was truly an honor to meet you. Today, we had eight minutes to talk. If this wasn't Web Summit, I would say this was a quickie but it was. So thank you, Michelle Thank you Daniella Thank you everyone for listening, and have a nice web summit will be amazing. Thank you so much, it was an honor. Thank you.