
Alright, I'm very excited for the next speaker, because next speaker co founded a company that has created many worlds and fantasies that everyone here has experienced and loved. Who saw Avengers Endgame, right? Best movie ever. He transformed Mark Ruffalo into the Hulk. He also reimagined Disney's classic Jungle Book. And they all leverage the most cutting edge and sophisticated technology to help the best storytellers in the world bring their visions to life. Please welcome to the stage, the co founder of BAFTA, and Academy Award winning Studio Framestore, Mike McGee.
Hello everyone.
Today, I'm going to share some insights into the creative and technical worlds of visual effects. I was looking at one show that maybe I could take apart for you to show you the behind the scenes. But because we make over 20 feature films every year, I thought I'd broaden the scope a bit wider. The opening slide I'm using is from a BBC series that we made back in the 90s. It was a documentary called Walking with Dinosaurs. Had over three hours worth of photo real dinosaurs and was really, for us, a changing time of visual effects, where creatures could look photo real on the screen. Now we've been pushing the boundaries of visual effects and making impossible stories ever since. 
So today, withwith the use of some exciting visuals, I'm going to take you through the story of visual effects. We are always trying to find new and better ways to transform a creative vision from an idea into an on screen reality. We use VFX to create transforming environments to breathe life and emotion into CG characters, and to craft impossible transformations like this human form with its fabric, morphing and transitioning into a venomous giant snake. We'll design supernatural elements to interact with live performers. We'll breathe life into characters like Pokemon, Rocket, Dobby. We'll create superheroes like Spider Man and the Hulk. We'll create period buildings and locations. We'll mobilize armies on horseback. We'll construct battle scenes. We'll put animals with pyrotechnics. And as storytellers grow more and more confident with visual effects, the creative challenges get bigger and bigger and more ambitious.
We're good
We're good. Yeah. Thank you
Now creativity and this kind of work involves taking risks. Often the techniques and technologies that we use to tell a story don't exist when we start out. This slide here for example, the director wanted the audience to believe he'd gone to space to film it. When you look at that frame, only Sandra Bullock's face inside the space helmet is real. The environment, the planet, the spaceship, even Sandra's body. The helmet she's wearing and the visor in front of her face, are all modeled and animated CG objects. When we look at a shot from the film, the environment work is so important. There was no spaceship for Sandra to be inside. She's actually on wires in a cardboard set. And we are building the whole of the spaceship in CG. Over 2000 lit and rendered models make up the interior of that spaceship. Sandra is shot on wires. She sat on a bicycle seat with a pole on. And we morph and transition from Sandra to Sandra. Almost 96% of the screen time of this finished film was made in CG. And actually one of our guys calculated that if you wanted to render Gravity, that movie, on one computer alone, and you wanted the film finished today, you'd have had to have started the render off in 5000 BC. So I'm talking a little about environments. Let's look at a few more environments and how they help us tell our stories.
From a blue screen studio shoot, we'll create a vast industrial interior. We'll match a London city location and build it around a stunt vehicle adding CG buildings, lighting, and traffic. We'll realize fantasy lands with castles, armies and giant beasts. All will put Sandra Bullock inside a NASA spacecraft. We'll enhance backlot sets to extend the streets, adding buildings and squares. And we'll build whole cities to create vast urban landscapes. We'll recreate the majesty of high altitude mansion scenes, or reconstruct the interior of a London taxi. We'll animate rough ocean waves and accurately reconstruct the home of the French Quarter of Paris, building by building, so that the camera can fly over the city, drop down into any street, and end up in a square with our live action performance. And when Marvel superheroes need environments that can explode next to their physical performances. Wizards need dining rooms. Or we need to build totally CG environments that are futuristic, to contain apocalyptic apocalyptic narratives. Whatever the desired location is VFX can create an unforgettable canvas upon which you can tell your story. Of course, visual effects need performers. In this next reel, when you're watching it, just try and work out what it is about the characters, the creatures, that are making you emotionally connect with them. The camera's often moving slowly, but the performances of these creatures are drawing you in. Try and work out what it is on the micro expressions of these characters that's making you connect with them.
Sorry
tables and chairs.
What's he going to do now?
You ask a lot of questions.
That can get you killed.
We gotta get out of the
Aren't we going to clear my name
You lied to me
Goodbye, Christopher
There has never really been a more exciting time, I don't think to work in the world of visual effects. So ladies and gentlemen, I'll leave you with a cat in space as my parting goodbye. So, thank you very much