
Sunil Sharma: So we're now be joined on stage by one of, if not the most creative footballers of all time. Over the course of his long and illustrious career, he has won World Cups, champion leagues and domestic leagues in Spain and Italy, as well as being recognized as the greatest footballer on the planet in 2005. Known by his teammate Xavi as a player so good, he just makes you smile. He's going to be here alongside Viktor Huszar from Teqball, and he's going to encourage each of you at the Web Summit to keep on creating. So please give a huge Web Summit welcome to Viktor Huszar and to the one and only Ronaldinho.
Viktor Huszar: Welcome, everyone. Well, you know, for me Web Summit is about magic. And I think today we are here with one of the biggest magician of the word and we want really to use that magic for someone. So we have a ball and why don't we call this the magic ball. So I'm going to ask now Ronaldinho sign it we make this magic ball. So everyone knows this is the original with the signature of Ronaldinho. All right, thank you so much. And we are going to shoot this ball to the audience. And we hope that one person who catches this ball is a young entrepreneur who really will use this ball. So please, please all the investors who are in this room if that young entrepreneur catches that bill, and he shows off that ball then you have to go and talk to that guy. And he's going to tell you his magic. That's an elevator pitch record. Ronaldinho, the floor is yours so we want to hear who wants to get that chance.
Viktor Huszar: Let me see that magic ball. Who is that? The ball disappeared various the board. We have the ball okay. big applause for the lady there. All the investors you have to you have to support that. She might have changing idea. Okay, well, first we need to show you something because our story started like this as well. I'm Hungarian, and I started a game in my garden. And in two years the world has changed upside down. Please watch this video. So it explains all.
Viktor Huszar: So the secret this idea of curving a ping pong table and today an introduction of skill and eSports, where we recognize the ball with a smartphone. Sometimes it's simple sometimes it's challenging. I'm asking Ronaldinho, you know, on the journey to success. How important is the idea?
Ronaldinho: [Portuguese]
Ronaldinho (Translator): Everybody, it is a pleasure to be here.
Ronaldinho: [Portuguese]
Ronaldinho (Translator): Using this and we are willing to move on and to grow further and further, thank you.
Viktor Huszar: Garden, and today I'm talking in front of thousands of people. This is the story of my life. I'm a young entrepreneur like you, and it just happened. And now people talk to me like Teqball will be an Olympic sport, you see. So, there is magic, but magic sometimes doesn't work just as it is. For me, the lesson was that I had to make those sacrifices to do that. For me, the question was always whether is that original luck, the best goalkeepers have luck. They say, but on the journey my question to Ronaldinho in his success influencing hundreds of millions with his magic. Can you learn success on the journey? Is it something a skill that you can learn? Or is it the instinct when you make the decisions?
Ronaldinho (Translator): Well, insights my profession.
Ronaldinho (Translator): I am lucky enough to be able to work hard, and I also have luck. I I then, if you work hard, you the ability of success is huge.
Viktor Huszar: They say maybe in Los Angeles in 2020. It's Olympic sport. But this also initiated a conversation of how we can activate people. We are on the smartphones, unfortunately, with everyone has a smartphone. Everyone has a bowl. So we decided that we try to use technology to unite sport. And that's why we launched today at the sport stage, the scalar, the esports discipline of our Federation, because they believe that with the smartphones, you can actually do an Esports which is a real sport. physical movements are there for you if you play all the time against each other. By Don you use the phone and your scale. You have the best people to show an example. This question is not a question. It's rather a message. You're all here. You want to make the success Here is someone who has absolutely made that success and inspired all of us. So what is the message for all the young entrepreneurs from Ronaldinho himself?
Ronaldinho (Translator): I hope that you all are very lucky in your choices. There are lots of people with new ideas, lots of investors. The main thing is to follow your dream. It's not to give up it's to believe in to work hard to dedicate yourself. So I wish you all to follow your dreams and with joy, joy to all of the worlds.