
The word legend is often thrown around but rarely used so accurately. It is a great pleasure that we are about to be joined on stage by footballer that defined a generation and a man that has gone on to achieve an incredible amount both within and outside sport since retiring. He comes to Web Summit today alongside Jurgen Griesbeck of Common Goal to pose an important question to the tech community. Please give a huge welcome to the King Eric Cantona.
As long as I can remember, football has played a leading role in my life. The football pitch was the first stage where I performed. First, without an audience as a young boy in the street of Marseille. Later as a professional at Old Trafford.
Like no other sport, football brings people together. Frees their minds, ignites their passion. The game reaches billions all over the world and it has the power to make an incredible difference in people's lives and communities.
The world that is fraying at the seams that has burning issues we need to tackle. This world needs football more than ever before.
Together, let's play for change. For the better of our world.
Community just a few streets from here where football is supporting people suffering social exclusion, poverty, and homelessness.
And this is only one of many thousands of communities around the world that are using football as a tool to empower young people to transform their communities. My first experience was in Colombia in 1996 in Medellin where groups in armed conflict put down their weapons in order to play together. So this was where my journey started.
It's actually we won the double with Manchester United and I scored the winning goal in FA Cup Final the last minutes of the game against Liverpool at Wembley, in front of 80,000 people, the atmosphere was unbelievable.
That something that I will never forget.
I at that time started to understand the incredible power of football to drive change.
I understood the men's power of football to inspire and unite
From putting down guns 
To lifting glory.
And that's the same passion that's actually have happening in real life everyday everywhere
In the drama and investment of a packed Stadium
On dusty fields and muddy backyards
With the newest boots
Or barefoot in the sand
Playing with a ball 
A stone or can 
Different places, different people, same passion.
Over the past 20 years we have seen football empower young people, transform communities, save lives. All over the world we have surfaced hundreds of entrepreneurs who have been using football as an accelerator of development in their very communities.
There's a football industry has developed into an economic powerhouse with double digits percentage growth, even during the global financial crisis. And despite the massive reputational crisis. My parents never talked to me or my brothers, about fame or money. We're raised about enjoyment, love of the game, the love of walking on, love of winning, the love of coming back even stronger after losing a game, never about money. I have heard that now some parents speak to the kids too much about fame and money.
Money, poverty, growth for growth's sake, I have started to wonder if we're losing the essence of the game.
Yeah, it's actually football generating massive financial resources here and saving lives there. It's like two worlds apart. Like if it wasn't happening on two different planets. As a response to that, we created Common Goal. The idea of common goal is actually to create a systemic bridge between football for good and football for profit. Let's just have a quick look at a video. 
Solidarity, respect, equality, passion. Let's act together and bring these values to every single place. 
Like no other sport football brings people together. The world that has burning issues we need to tackle needs football more than ever before.
We are together because we believe in the power of football to change lives in different countries, different situations.
Sport doesn't care about who you are, where you're from, when you're on the pitch, you're all working together for the same goal. That's what's going to help you achieve your goals in the end.
As a footballer, it's really important to take on responsibility. You're in a privileged position to be able to influence people. So I think so important that people use that for good 
[Japanese]
I want to make giving back part of football. Help football feel good about itself again. I want to change the game for good.
Thank you.
1%
Yeah 1% the idea behind Common Goal is really simple. It's about football every euro that is generated thanks to commercializing the game to invest but one cent of it into a collective impact fund
In an industry was 50 billion. This will translate into 500 million every year of collective investment that emerged from egos and brands exclusively focusing on the inbox.
When we, when we started just two years ago, there was many people out there, especially in the football industry itself that told us You're crazy. This will never work.
Baker crazy, some familiar to me.
Over the last two years now, as you could see in the video, over 130 professional athletes have teamed up to change the world through football.
These players are no different than the rest of humanity.
Yeah, and actually all other stakeholders are starting to join. So there is interesting leaders like the way of our president, his journalist, his agents, this whole collapse, joining with the idea of 1%, which in itself naturally is a collective effort. It doesn't sound like a man, like much rain.
But if everyone, everyone gets behind it, change the game.
So maybe we just do an exercise quickly here. So it's not 15,000 people here, but maybe 10. So if we translated that into, like, the accumulated 1% of all of you together, just to who we are in the room today, would probably make close to
nearly 3.5 million,
taking the new income as an average. Just but it's just an exercise. let's translate that into what would that mean? Like if we all decided now, to give 1% of our earnings into a collective fund? We could actually free spirit of Sekai in Iraq for example, we could enable education for 250,000 children in regards to unexploded landmines.
In the United States, according to the American schools, you provide football kids, classroom suppliers for over 70,000 young kids and in England gives 250,000 people suffering from disability to chance to play a game and to be part of a team.
If we look at India, the Oscar foundation like 10,000 young people could have access to travel, clothes, shoes, and education for a whole year.
While with Malaika in the Democratic Republic of Congo 190,000 young girls who love to Airbus checks
So and this is just a would just be us in this room in one year. So now imagine how that would look like if it went beyond us.
What if it was not only about pledging 1% of our salary but 1% of our time? To make it more simple, what if everyone in this room could donate 90 minutes per week, the length of a football game to change the world.
Again, if we apply to this film, it would make round about a million hours in just one year. Then imagine there's 3 billion football fans out there. You can do the math on that. But it roughly would take us to 100 million full time equivalent workforce by 2030.
Football as a biggest global collective, tackling the challenges of our times.
And all we need is not just us, but everyone let's have a look and listen to Megan Megan Rapinoe.
Yes, we're female athletes are so much more than that. You're so much more than that. You're more than a fan. You're more than someone who just support sports. You're more than someone who tuned in every four years. you're someone who walks the streets every single day. you interact with your community every single day. How do you make your community better? How do you make the people around you better your family, your closest friends, the 10 closest people to you the 20 closest people to you, the most hundred closest people to you. But it's time to come together. This conversation is at the next step. We have to collaborate it takes everybody this is my charge everybody. Do what you can do what you have to do. Step outside yourself, be more, be better be bigger than you've ever been before. If this team is any representation of what you can be, when you do that, please take this as an example.
For 2013
We already know that most probably we won't achieve the global goals.
Some may already think, game over. I want to believe that it could be Game on.
And we're only looking at the football industry now imagine 500 million per year just 1% of what football football generates per year. Think about 100 million full time work for us to contribute to people beyond ourselves. 90 minute as a time searching a new path.
Changing the mindset redefining what success is for us, as a team, as a society, as humanity.
Imagine if we understood contribution as an indicator of success, like as a currency, acknowledged it and rewarded it as society
moving from setting global goals and fixing problems and giving back to giving for caring and sharing as a new normal
and understanding the StG is not as goals that we set ourselves for a certain period but as as the game itself. True if we fail with a with a global goals by 2030 but we might have changed the world, maybe forever. We have it in our hands, we believe we have 10 years to go to get it right and the clock is ticking.
2013 is not only is a moment of truth in regards of to the global goals. It is also an They have the biggest collective celebration. The 100 year anniversary of the football Walker
Imagine
this world cup to be the showcase of what we can achieve as a Tim football we nurture in the world. We can do it as one big team.
So this is our commitment in the name of football to the world. We will make the 1% contribution of the football industry and norm by 2030. If you are participating any of you in the football industry, please join us. help lead the way. Second thing we will create and lounge a marketplace where the willingness to contribute of anybody will meet the solutions you can contribute to in a meaningful way. Stay tuned, this will be Give 19 and it will be soon available. And obviously it's also an invitation to the tech community to support us to build the best possible tool to make that work. We're talking about unlocking 100 million full time workforce by 2030 to contribute to people and planet. Let's not continue sitting on the sidelines and get into the game. It's on all of us. Thank you very much.