
Paddy Cosgrave: Is everybody ready for our final speaker? Kind of? Oh come on we can cheer louder than that. Who's ready for Jaden Smith? He's flown all the way from California. We're going to give them a huge round of applause in a moment to Portugal. Please welcome in conversation with Laurie Segall of Dot Dot Media, founder and CEO of BlueTech research, Paul O'Callaghan co founder and CEO of water.org, Gary White and co founder of JUST water Jaden Smith.
Laurie Segall: Wow. I told Jaden that you feel like Beyonce when you're out here. 
Jaden Smith: You're right. 
Laurie Segall: But then I was like Jaden Smith, so I was like I can't say that to you. Before we get started I want to play a quick trailer. Let's take a look.
Someone: Imagine tomorrow we cure cancer in 100 years there was still a million kids dying of cancer. It would be unthinkable. But that's the situation we find ourselves with water.
Someone: By 2025, 1.8 billion people will be living in water stress region
Someone: We are reaching a perfect storm in terms of water.
Jaden Smith: The reason you need to care about the water crisis is because it's going to directly affect you and your family. We're on the brink of being hopeless. But we're not there yet.
Gary White: We break down the barriers between people and safe water and sanitation. 
Someone: We envision a day when everybody has access to clean water and sanitation and we envision that in our lifetime
Paul O'Callaghan: People who are really struggling with drought or deteriorating water quality, those are the people on the edges on the fringes that are really innovating.
Someone: Just came from a very dry season. So these was the only source of drinking water for these children.
Someone: The water we have today is the water we've always had. We use it, and then we throw it away. Nature doesn't do that
Someone: Everything that you need to stay alive except carbon is in your waste, it's in your feces and your urine and  the breath that comes out of you.
Someone: Toilet to tank is really what we're doing here. It was always my dream, I can take my wastewater, put it in my car and drive off into the sunshine.
Someone: It breaks my heart that we have the solutions and we can't get them out fast enough.
Someone: This can happen in our lifetime. This has to happen in our lifetime or we're looking at a very different world for our children.
Someone: How lucky are we that we're the ones who get to solve this. In 100 years people are going to wish they were alive, and they could solve a problem this big.
Laurie Segall: I think it sets the stage that we're at a, a massive tech event, and we're talking on opening night about water. I think that says a lot so this is a documentary that all of you guys have been a part of called Brave Blue World and I get the sense that this is a bit of a call to action. Why is this personal to you guys and what brought you all together can start with you, Paul?
Paul O'Callaghan: Sure. Well, I'm a scientist I'm a water scientist, and I spend my life looking at water challenges and how to solve those challenges. And everywhere I look, I see cause for optimism. And yet, a lot of what I think most people hear about if they hear anything about water is apocalyptic tales of doom and gloom that we're running out of water, and that we'll fight wars over water, and yet there's a different story. And we have fantastic tech. We have great financial innovation that can help address this, and my motivation. As a scientist to create a water documentary was communication to spread this message to a broader audience, such as the people here at the web summit that there is a water crisis, it's closer than you think. The great news is we have solutions, and you're part of that solution that was the motivation.
Laurie Segall: Great. And how about you, Gary?
Gary White: Well, for me it's personal because it's such a tragic situation that we live in, you know, the fact that more than 750 million people today don't have access to water, and more than 2 billion don't have access to safe sanitation, and that is just inexcusable. You know, on a planet where we solved this problem 100 years ago. How crazy is it that people still don't have access to that. And so it's not enough just to be aware of the issue of it's like how do you take action and what we know is we have to innovate and that's what we're seeing with what Jaden and Paul are doing. But what we're doing also is innovating in new ways around finance and recognizing that people living in poverty already pay a lot of money for water and just one quick story to illustrate why we approach this with micro loans for people in need of safe water is a woman I recently met Linda visa in the Philippines. She was paying $60 every month for the water for her family that she needed because she had to buy it from these water vendors sometimes the water mafia. These trucks that sell water, and she had to do that to make her family survive but what we were able to do with our partners is get her a small loan, about $200, so she could connect to the water utility. Once she did that her water bill went down to $5, a month, and her loan payment was $5, a month. And so that's what we're trying to do bring innovation into this and understand that the poor actually can be part of this solution, as opposed to a problem to be solved. And that's really what we're doing so you multiply that by 22 million. And that's how many people we've helped through loans with about $2 billion in capital, so we kind of find ways to bring innovative financial solutions in this as well as the the tech and the movement building that needs to happen,
Laurie Segall: Right, and Jaden How about you I mean you grew up in the movies you have this incredible celebrity family, you could literally do anything. I mean you put out music and it gets downloaded like 100 million times on Spotify like everything you do, just turns to cool I would say, and even me saying that I sound uncool saying that I feel like. Why, why water and how on earth did you guys just end up on stage together and collaborating?
Jaden Smith: Well water has always been important to me ever since I was 11 years old I started learning about the environment I started learning about oceans plastic co2 all the different gyres of plastic in the Pacific, and it really impacted me at a young age and I really wanted to make a difference and get out there and somehow get into the conversation of water sanitation and sustainability. So at the age of 11 that's when I started just water the company it's 82% made out of renewable resources and it's 72% reduction in co2 emissions compared to any of our competitors in a similar size, and I started at the age of 11 with Drew Fitzgerald who's in the crowd right now and that's how we really got into water and caring and understanding how important it is and at the end of the day we all are water, you know, and we came from water so when Paul reached out to us to talk about this documentary and to work together, it was just such a no brainer because I care about water so much ever since from a young age when I was learning how to surf and I saw the first like plastic ball of water that in my life that I'd seen floating in the ocean and my surfing teacher would tell me that you know the ocean is alive and the ocean is your friend and all these things so I I feel like I've almost had a spiritual connection with water from a very very young age.
Laurie Segall: And Paul I mean we see I've watched the documentary there's all this really interesting tech work that's happening kind of behind the scenes when it comes to water and the future and trying to solve this crisis. What's the most, I mean you spend, this is what you do, night and day what is the most interesting tech innovation you see happening when it comes to the water crisis
Paul O'Callaghan: Well, it's hard to pick one because it's it's not, there's no silver bullet. It requires tech, for sure. And there are some amazing solutions and in fact, whether you're in digital technology IoT biotech advanced material science, there are applications in water to do things with that technology. Sure we need financial innovation to bring financial capital to bear on the problem, policies, a part of it and really people getting us just getting that we can solve this and we can do it. But, you know, if I had to pick an example one thing that really resonated with me, was we went to Kenya filming, and we visited an orphanage, where these children had had no access to water for months, essentially, because the rains release in common. During that time, they had a device which captured water directly from the air. Because there's always some water in the atmosphere. And that innovation meant that those children didn't have to walk you know multiple kilometers a day to get drinking water. And by the time we were there filming. The rains that arrived and they collected that rain in tanks, and they were so happy they were hand washing their clothes. And it was our God, if I told my kids, you could hand wash your clothes we have some water, you know, it just was incredible, the difference that made their lives. That was certainly one example that struck me deeply even as someone who's been 20 years in water, I think, to see it firsthand really had an impact.
Laurie Segall: And you see a lot of this is happening also on like a local level like people coming up with very innovative solutions within their communities.
Paul O'Callaghan: It's hyper local although it's a global issue, because it affects us all it's hyper local, which is empowering because we can make a difference in our communities. And as we went around the world, we could see examples of text on is in China, in India, which had gone to zero liquid recycling all of their water in under the sea in Spain so when it converted wastewater into buy gas they're driving their car, based on wastewater and Kenya people are building solutions based on turning feces into fuel to offset carbon emissions. So as you look globally. There's a theme, it's local, it's looking at nature for inspiration. And you certainly what can apply in Flint, equally work and apply in Africa.
Laurie Segall: And Gary, you guys sent me some stats that I was mean the stats are alarming right I know we talked like doom and gloom we're not to be doom and gloom but one in every nine people on the planet lack access to water one in three people lack access to a toilet. But your whole thing and for those who don't know you worked with Matt Damon, to not to just drop my co founder, yeah, just to give some context again garion water.org. But you don't necessarily think giving or just charity is the answer you actually have a model that you've played out that you think works better.
Gary White: Yeah, absolutely. I think the thing we have to recognize is charity is great but it has its natural limitations, and there's never going to be enough charity in the world to solve this crisis. It's a trillion dollar problem that's facing us with the infrastructure needs. And so we need that top down investment we also have to meet it from the bottom up. And the good news is that there are literally hundreds of millions of people like Lynn Ariza who just given the opportunity to get a small loan to help get a water connection to the utility or get a water filter. That's massive capital from the bottom up I mean it's NGOs, we talked in the millions, but you know, $2 billion in capital from the bottom up to meet this need and these loans, more than half the people live on less than $2 a day and they repay them at 99%. And so we have to look at this all hands on deck the technological solutions the top down funding, we have water.org need philanthropy right we use that philanthropy to catalyze loans every dollar that we deploy and philanthropy leverage is $60 in loans. So how do you harness the power of the capital markets. That's the only way we're going to be able to do this. And that's what we do we build a bridge between investors in the capital markets and provide them actually a financial return to WaterEquity, and we connect that to the little reasons who are living on a few dollars a day, and everybody benefits, and now we can match the magnitude of the finance to the magnitude of the problem and get line of sight on everybody getting water and sanitation, it's going to be everybody pulling together to do it.
Laurie Segall: I mean, It seems like a no brainer but it's so fascinating to see how well that has worked I mean, do you guys have any idea of what's coming next that we can expect from you guys?
Gary White: So what we want to do next. And we're working on the platform right now in fact with IDEO in San Francisco. And what we want to do is to democratize this so right now, the investors and water equity that fund these micro loans are all accredited investors people, you know, investing a million dollars and more we're building a platform that would allow people to develop an impact account, it'll set alongside their savings account or checking account. And when they keep their money in that and it's fully liquid, we are using it behind the scenes to connect it to the linearizes, who need those loans. And so you'll be able to for the first time, create impact in the world without giving your money away, but just lending it to us for a period of time and you'll be able to track exactly how much you benefit different people with the water that they get the toilets that are built etc So watch for that, in 2020,
Laurie Segall: And Jaden, I want to talk about because you've you, you've do just water which seems to be doing very well worth 100 million is that?
Jaden Smith: That's what the Fast Company, just released an article, evaluate the
Laurie Segall: Unconfirmed but okay yeah there. So, but you, you also you've gotten involved with water on a very on a broader level to you have gone into Flint, and tried to help out there. Did I read it you went to church, to try to figure out a local solution to what might be interesting for Flint so could you talk to us a little bit.
Jaden Smith: 100% so Flint Michigan has been going through a water crisis with lead poisoning in the pipes for the past five years, and people have been aware and they've been giving donations to Flint, Michigan, have you know 2 million bottles of water the first year 1.5 the next year one, and then down to 800,000 and dwindling lower and lower as we keep going. And the problem with water bottles in Flint, is that people are showering with this water people are putting this water in pots to make breakfast for their kids, people are doing all things that they need to do with water on a daily basis brushing their teeth everything with bottles of water. And at the end of the day, in a community if you're trying to raise children you need to feel as though you have a clean source of water in that community and that you don't have to rely on donations from other people that have been dwindling down every year. So what me and drew did with our entire just water team is we created a water filtration system that specifically takes lead out of the water to deploy in Flint, and it does 10 gallons of water every 60 seconds. So we give that opportunity for people to go and fill up bigger drums of water for free whether you have a five gallon drum or you have a 10 gallon drums so that you can use it more efficiently than 500 milliliters and unscrew the top while you're you know giving your child a shower you're cooking food or something we wanted to give people a larger amount of clean water in Flint Michigan and that's just one of the ways that we can use different technologies when it comes to filtration to solve problems around the world. And you know, my original idea was I wanted to deploy an Africa in so many different places around the world, but I wanted to do it in my backyard first to get a proof of concept so that then I could take it to the world and now we have three water boxes in Flint right now we're going to have six there by the end of 2020 so we're really excited,
Laurie Segall: What's kind of interesting though is you're bringing a little bit of this lifestyle brand I mean you look at them, I think once is like sponsored by Apple or like, Ellen. And so you're trying to tell a different story. Besides, it's just this water box right so you're, how are you trying to combine like lifestyle brands with
Jaden Smith: You know, we're trying to make it cool we're trying to make it something that kids can be interested in. We're also giving kids in Flint opportunity to build a water box for themselves to see how it works to you know maybe they want to be a water engineer when they get older and start figuring out filtration systems for people across the world so we do try to make it cool and you know get cool sponsors that people will like that the end of the day, we're just trying to supply clean water for the people in Flint and hopefully for the whole world you know
Gary White: Corporations care about this more and more I mean the brand partnership we have a stellar Artois has been amazing, the you know the Super Bowl commercials that they put behind this trying to make this issue more mainstream in partnering with water.org on that they see huge value in that both with the customers but their employees and engaging them they have been told by the team there that people in ABI want to come to work on this project with water.org and are lobbying to get that position inside Abi, so it's not only you know customers but it's like employee attraction and retention, that these companies are really getting by partnering with issues like this.
Paul O'Callaghan: Corporations are huge users of water, I mean for every leader that we consume or drink that in our homes, is 4050 plus that we're using for the clothes we use the computers, the food we eat, and all of those big brands, whether it's like we see L'Oreal for example is embracing that they've decided, we will not take water from our communities, if we're Mexico will be neutral, if we're in North Africa will be water neutral. Now that's something that is to be applauded corporations get a bad rap when they do bad things justifiably so but equally well, they should be recognized and acknowledged when they are a force for positive change. And increasingly, is encouraging signs that is the case
Laurie Segall: Last question. What can everybody in this audience do to make a difference you know I think sometimes it feels like it's a very distant problem if you don't have to walk outside your door to go get water. This is an audience full of entrepreneurs What Can everybody in this audience do to do their part?
Paul O'Callaghan: Well one of the goals in producing a documentary was communication, and that this isn't something anyone can solve in the room, water can be a source of conflict, more often. It can be a source of cooperation, or people can come together to solve it, and whether that's looking at technology and how you can take your entrepreneurial spirit and bring it to bear on a problem that big, or look at this as a way for investment, returning capital are simply to be curious to the choir as to whether brands that you support are showing leadership or motor tools or somebody actually from
Gary White: our side I would say, you know, watch for our platform to launch in 2020 but in the meantime, water outward use it that philanthropy to create the next innovation, the next innovation. And so, donating they're unleashing even more entrepreneurial spirit to solve this crisis.
Jaden Smith: And I will just say people, you know, it's so important for people