
Someone: And so today talent soft is 100 million euro organization with 10 million users, all over the globe.
Someone: So what I really appreciate what I really enjoyed this last decade, is that HR became so strategic.
Someone: You remember 10 years ago, HR was something that was maybe seen as boring. And today it is on every agenda of key managers and CEOs.
Someone: Let me tell you why. In fact, let me give you some examples of what our customers are asking today. First, Callum plan. They want to align the business plan that key managers needs to do with the tongue plan to make sure that if there is a go to market transformation. Yes, the potential of the human capital of the organization can match that.
Someone: Then we tell you another example. HR personal assistant. Yes, a lot of organization, Juan talent soft to help them to put HR personal assistant. Behind every employee. every manager, really like the ways of HR. In fact, so that you know, or you can be assisted to know where to go, what is your next step in your career. Really matching your aspirations, your experience, your competencies. In fact, with the priorities, and the priorities of the company. For example, the new job, a new opening a new project. A new training.
Someone: And the last one I want to mention is really a key challenge, a great challenge. It is reskilling.
Someone: Because at the end, digital transformation is about new jobs is about new competencies.
Someone: So you need you will be every one of you will be involved in risk killing efforts. And for that, this effort, tons of also help, not really in the classroom, but in the flow of work directly in the workplace. We call it continuous learning. And by the way that's true for technical skills, but even more for soft skills that will give the agility, in fact that the transparency that a lot of organizations are really wanting to have.
Someone: So now you may be understand why hi is so strategic today, and Yi talent soft, we feel so lucky. Every day to work and contribute to these fantastic challenges for organizations, but also for our societies. Thank you very much.
Someone: Alright, next we have Dominic Williams founder and president of DFINITY, since inception in, 2016 DFINITY his mission has been to extend the internet into a decentralized cloud to host the next generation of software and services, coming out Dominic and tell us more.
Someone: Hi web summit, I'm Dominic Williams. I'm the founder and chief scientist of the Dfinity Foundation. We're a nonprofit based in Switzerland. We've got research centers in Zurich, San Francisco and Palo Alto. And we're working on something called the internet computer.
Someone: So to understand the internet computer projects you have to reflect on internet history from the 1990s.
Someone: Back then they were competing ideas about what a shared network should look like. We had walled gardens from the likes of America Online I'm copies of and Microsoft. I propose something called the information superhighway.
Someone: But in the event. The world preferred the open Internet, which provided a open and permission this environment that provided a platform for innovation, creativity, entrepreneurial ism investment. And ultimately, all of the economic growth that we see here.
Someone: So, the internet computer is credited in a similar way to the internet.
Someone: The internet is credited by a public protocol called IP that combines thousands of private networks around the world into a single global public virtual network. That will chat.
Someone: The Internet computer is created by a protocol called ICP internet computer protocol that will combine thousands of independent data centers around the world. To create a single global virtual public computer, which provides functionality akin to an advanced global service cloud.
Someone: So today. The internet just provides connectivity to thin internet.
Someone: And if you want to run software system, or an internet service. You need to upload it to one of a small number of gigantic rooms, called hyper scale data centers, which are run by an even smaller handful of monopolistic cloud service providers.
Someone: The environment is made even more monopolistic because big tech has built out services that have crawled user data and functionality. And it's actually very difficult to build meaningful new mass market services without building on top of their API's, and those API's are unreliable.
Someone: So, the internet computer is different, and provides an environment where we can recreate internet services in the form of, open, open services that run as part of the fabric of the internet. If you want to hear more about this. I'll be presenting on the full stack stage later. Thanks very much.
Someone: Hello. Ro we've come to our final breakout speaker of web summit, 2019 speaking today is Andre Penha, the founder and chief technology officer at QuintoAndar, the rental tech company came to and our guarantees the payment every month to each landlord and makes it really simple for potential tenants to find view negotiate and sign a rental contract, and they've just completed a massive 250 million US dollar series D. So let's give a huge welcome to our final breakout speaker.
Someone: Now
Someone: is the fastest and safest way to rent a place to live. We currently operate only in Brazil. For now, but I'm here to tell you today, how we are helping shape the future of housing. Let me start by actually pointing the difference between my generation and my parents generation as an example. So I was born and raised in a state called miniaturize in Brazil. And then I've lived in a few different places, during and after college. Right. And I went to Stanford and came back to Brazil, and in the last six years alone. I have lived in five different apartments. My parents through all this time, have lived in the same house. So, this does not mean that I'm a lousy neighbor. It actually means that there's a clear difference between my parents generation and my generation in behavior we are much more mobile. If we find a new place to live. I mean, find a new job, by the way, we want the place to live near that no job, right, if we make more money we want a more sophisticated place if we want to raise a family you want to move. And it doesn't make sense to keep passing through all the burden of buying a new house every time.
Someone: But in order for this to be simple, like someone in Uber or Luber or lift on the phone, you need to do it in a very, let's say, streamlined way right. Well, we've done that, by the way. So, QuintoAndar, it's very easy, the process to rent an apartment is simple, simple, it starts with the search all the listings are verified. It's. There's instant booking you can just book, an apartment to see if you want to visit an apartment tomorrow morning to Steven a live there you go there, you negotiate directly with the landlord so transaction is very simple. There's no need to present a co signer or a guarantee or deposit or anything, just a quick credit check and boom, you're in, and the management. Well, that's very easy as well you pay your bills, every month in the app. Right. And the landlord gets paid, whether you pay or not we guarantee the payment to the landlord so simple for everyone say for everyone. This is the simplest way I've ever heard of renting an apartment worldwide.
Someone: Well, this is the process. But there's more than the process right. What if I can't find the right place. What if the pricing is not right.
Someone: So what we are doing right now at QuintoAndar is using data to influence pricing to influence the characteristics of the apartment. So, We do dynamic pricing we actually increase the ROI for the landlord, but also make sure that the tenants find the right apartments for the right price, using data science. We also suggest renovation. We also can renovate the apartment for the landlord and increase the liquidity of that apartment, and then we charge it back in the rent. So we are doing this all to make rental as simple as calling a car, and to allow people to live, where they want.
Someone: This is QuintoAndar Thank you very much.
Someone: All right, thank you everyone that concludes our breakup startups for web Summit 2019, but please stay in your seats. The afternoon content will start soon actually text your friends. The next talk from Boston Dynamics is gonna be awesome alright so see you in a few minutes.
Someone: Toronto firmly arrived on the world taxing the fourth largest tech market in all of North America and what we're doing in Canada is making sure that there is room for everyone to succeed.
Someone: rato is having a moment we are building an ecosystem in Silicon Valley's been around for 50 plus years so this isn't going to happen overnight. I believe the culture of Silicon Valley drove others, to a business model that is incredibly destructive.
Someone: Let's not just sleep walk into a world where technology authoritarians ism governs our choices. Technology is all around us, we are constantly being surveilled
Someone: responsible data use, is one of the biggest social issues of our time. We have to balance the privacy responsibility. Tim site technologies, great. It's about people. We all come together as a people. The world we're in right in front of us. We don't succeed. Together, we're all going to fail separately.
Someone: I don't think I ever dreamed that Toronto, will be a destination I want to kind of activity.
Someone: It's a very exciting time to be in Toronto. This is the single Ben time as an entrepreneur to be fundraising in this country, we have extraordinary talent here, we have a really strong economic advantage or a new company, you can't be an island, you have to build partnerships.
Someone: Eventually collision brings opportunity. Collision belongs in Toronto, very fortunate to be part of this journey. That's why collision are very important. Because they enable the movement of ideas to bring some diversity. Different talent into the room, very inclusive partners and our customers are here, we have to be here.
Someone: I will definitely be back next year.
Someone: Canavan.
Someone: All right, here we go. The final afternoon of web summit 2019 how excited everyone.
Someone: Awesome fantastic to hear. So this afternoon we have 435 will have the pitch final winner announced, we're going to have the CTO of United States of America, and also the closest show the most important woman in technology today so stick around for this afternoon, it's gonna be amazing. All right. Coming up next, though. This is amazing. One of the most infamous companies in the world to have never released a product on the consumer market, until now. However, there are other creations seem oddly familiar to most of us existing previously in astonishing videos online with a payload capacity of 14 kilos, and the ability to operate at temperatures of minus 45 degrees Celsius. Their first product is no ordinary machine Now you're ready for this. Please welcome to the stage, founder of Boston Dynamics, Marc Raibert and their new robot spots.
Someone: Good everyone's excited for that one. Hello everybody. It's great to be here. I love working with my team building robots. And today I'll give you a little status update on where we are focusing on today, a robot that we're been shipping for the last month. Tomorrow, a robot that we're going to start shipping maybe an 18 months or 24 months in the future, a robot that we don't really plan to ship, but it's letting us address the boundaries of what robots might be able to do.
Someone: But before I start, I wanted to say a couple of words about AI and our special brand of AI, that I call athletic AI.
Someone: Most people working on AI are working on problems that when humans solve them are kind of done in our heads. Things like solving a math problem, or planning your trip to the airport in the morning, you know you know what time your flight leaves you make an assessment of what the traffic is. And then you back out all those things and figure out what time you have to get up to make sure you get to the flight on time. These are things that that we do in our heads and I call that scholarly AI.
Someone: But there's another kind of intelligence that we all have that lets us operate our bodies. And I call that athletic AI, those are things that let me balance up here on a couple of on my legs. They let me walk and run and climb. They let me manage the energetics of my motion so that I can conserve energy and go further, or be stronger, and they let me perceive the immediate environment in real time around me that lets me maneuver with respect to obstacles or maneuver, with respect to competitors if I were an athlete.
Someone: So, most of us aren't athletes, but we all have a high level of athletic AI, or eklektik, I intelligence that we use all the time and our company is focused on developing athletic AI for robots. So I'll give you a little play a little video that should be some inspiration and demonstration of what athletic intelligence is like in nature. Here's an animal that is sensing its terrain, adjusting how it uses its limbs. This one is managing its energetics to be able to get unbelievable speeds of travel and humans have large amounts of athletic intelligence that well as well.
Someone: I assume all of you are out this morning working up a little sweat doing tasks like this.
Someone: And we aspire to be able to make robots someday, not immediately that have these kinds of skills. That means building perception systems acceleration systems. Planning systems dynamic control and all the rest.
Someone: And here's a little taste of history of us trying to address those environments. We're not up to the levels of athleticism, that are in animals. But we have a focus on the dynamics of behavior energetics balance and things like that.
Someone: Those are the ingredients that make robots able to work in a physical world that isn't always predictable and, for instance, this robot walking on the ice was a totally unexpected circumstance, but the control systems and the sensors, were able to respond.
Someone: Here's a robot that doesn't have a driver, it's using its vision system to follow Seth Davis, who's the leader here. And it also in this situation, where it's following the leader as it Porsche wax through this terrain.
Someone: And of course I we come from Boston, where the ability of legs to travel in snow is a real asset because Wheeldon track things can't go there.
Someone: And here's our attempt at building a cheetah. It doesn't go nearly as fast as the animal, but it uses a lot of the same concepts, dynamic control acceleration balance that are key ingredients for the animal cheetah.
Someone: Well, today I'm going to talk about three robots spot, which is the today robot it's a robot we're shipping handle, which is a logistics robot that we are developing and should be ready in about a year and a half or two years, and Atlas Atlas is our Lamborghini. It's expensive. It takes a team of special people to keep it working, but it's the performance is higher than anything else. We've been able to create.
Someone: So let me start with spot spot is smaller than previous Quadro peds we've built it weighs about 60 pounds. This is a prototype but in a minute, you'll see the, the shipping version. And this isn't actually a real house, this is inside a warehouse. And those aren't real people, those are engineers. And we're just testing out the ability of spot to operate in an environment that's like you'd find in a house or an office or a factory or something like that. Spot can use its legs to go upstairs. And it has a autonomous navigation system that lets it go through a terrain so here there's no driver, it's using a map that was built up in advance, and it's using obstacle detection cameras, so that it can see the railings and see the steps in order to work on this kind of terrain all happening in real time on board.
Someone: Now that's a chicken and chicken and most animals have the ability to stabilize part of their bodies, while the rest of the body is moving. And that means you can use that stability to think in terms of controlling the behavior of a hand with respect to its task like opening the store, and not have to worry about all the interactions between the legs in the body. That was a good samaritan robot.
Someone: And we've been exploring other kinds of behavior for the robot This is, I think this is twerking.
Someone: So Scott has ambitions to be an entertainment robot as well.
Someone: Now we have a spot here that we're going to bring up on stage, it's coming in from the back of the room. For those of you who are on the center aisle. If you could stay seated, it would be easier for people near you to see the robot because spot is kind of short or look up on the screen.
Someone: Seth Davis is operating the robot. So in this case we're not, it's not autonomous Lee traveling, it's being steered by Seth. Although the computers on board are regulating the motion of the legs and the balance and all those kinds of things.
Someone: I think spot travels at about three miles an hour which is sort of human walking speed.
Someone: It's got cameras on the front, the back and the sides, which it uses to navigate around obstacles and autonomous Lee travel through space.
Someone: For those of you who didn't get to see the robot we're going to try and take it out in front of the building sometime after the talk, so you can get a chance to see it and we'll even let a few of you drive it if you like, you'll see how easy it is.
Someone: Thomas here.
Someone: It's using its cameras and its other sensors to navigate the stairs.
Someone: I don't actually know where I'm supposed to be now but.
Someone: So we'll just do a little demo of some of the capabilities of the robot.
Someone: The robot coordinates the motion of its legs with its onboard computers. Here it's using a walking gait one leg moving at a time, there was trotting when it came up.
Someone: I think it has a slow walk it can do. So these are gates that animals use. We're not always sure if there's real utility of those animal gates in a robot like this but it's interesting to explore and the control systems that coordinate the transitions are really interesting. Here's a running game, I think, I think that is the happy gate for spot. I wish it ran all the time. And this is it show off gay, where it's just hopping on two legs.
Someone: Someday I hope we can get spot to hop on one leg. When it goes. Now one of the things about a legged robot is it's omnidirectional. So in addition to be able to go forward it can go sideways.
Someone: They could go backwards, and it can turn in place.
Someone: And if you look carefully you can see there's cameras here go around one more time. There's cameras in the front right here there's a set of stereo cameras is a set here, and there's a set the back. And those are used to look for obstacles, but also to keep track of where the robot is in its environment.
Someone: Spot can use those cameras to go over terrain you already saw come up the stairs, but here you can see it, adjust itself as it goes over the box.
Someone: You want to come over sideways.
Someone: Unlike animals spot has cameras in the side, so it can do things like over obstacles sideways or even backwards.
Someone: Right.
Someone: And it can also avoid obstacles I'm going to be an obstacle for a minute. Okay so Seth sass gonna honestly just try and drive it towards me.
Someone: But spot doesn't really want to run over me so it sees me and plans a local path around.
Someone: Now one of the really cool things about spot is it's got an arm. In addition to its legs.
Someone: And I'm going to give you all a homework assignment. When you go to dinner tonight, sit at the table and keep your shoulder fixed in space that is you're not allowed to move your body and see what you can reach at the table.
Someone: Most of you won't be able to reach your water glass, you certainly won't be able to reach the butter dish which is a little further out. And I think that all of industrial robots that are nailed to the ground are bolted to the ground are missing a bet because they don't have a mobile base. So spot can use its body in order to extend the reach of its arm. It's a mobile manipulation platform. And that really makes it much more effective.
Someone: The other thing that spot can do is decouple the motion of its hand from its body, we like to call this chicken head mode as you saw in the video, but it's really an important tool for being able to make a robot where the, the controller is just worrying about the task The hand is doing. And it doesn't have to worry about all the coordination and the robot.
Someone: So, thank you spot.
Someone: Thank you, Seth.
Someone: So you might so we're shipping spot. And you might ask what's it good for and here are some little bit of video that shows some of the applications we've been testing with customers and partners. This is an oil refinery run by British Petroleum where we're going to places that ordinary robots can't really go carrying a special set of sensors that let it make measurements. This is a methane sensor. It also can has a camera in his hand. So we can go look at gauges. And right now, they can only inspect the many places that have to be inspected about quarterly, and it consumes a lot of labor and time and we expect to be able to make these places safer for the robot. That was a power distribution plant where there are places where robots are where people aren't allowed to go when they're powered up. And this is a construction site. It turns out that construction is moving into a phase where they have all kinds of sensing, they want to do, to measure the progress of the construction activity to get 3d scans to get as built data, and I think they can save a lot of money by collecting this data on a routine basis. This is a pharaoh scanner, which produces a 3d map of its environment. This is testing at a construction site, and this is the kind of 3d world you can put together that you can later fly through and things like that.
Someone: In addition to those kind of industrial applications. We're also looking at entertainment applications of spot. So this is a game where people are driving the robots so it's like a video game, but in this case instead of it being a computer graphics character. It's a physical character.
Someone: That's one of our employees children. She learned to drive the robot and about 12 seconds. It's really easy because autonomy on the robot makes the driving task, simpler.
Someone: And we're also experimenting with working with others this is a piece, done by Cirque du Soleil one of their workshop groups where we're looking at how robots and people could work together to provide entertainment and performances.
Someone: So spot is a shipping product. And one of the reasons I'm here is because I hope some of you who are developers will decide that you have an application that our platform can be adapted for and develop either hardware, because it's designed for third parties to add hardware to the robot, or to add software and interact with the robot through our API. And if you want to read more about it you can go to our website. These are some of the payloads that we've developed in order to prime the ecosystem pump. There's an arm which you saw in the one on stage, there's a special spread spectrum radio. Although the robot has Wi Fi built in. And then there's a couple of cameras and LIDAR is that can be used in different kinds of circumstances, but we also have companies that are developing their own sensors that interact with the robot through the interfaces, we've provided. So I hope some of you will think about being a spot application developer, we're building about 1000 spots at the moment. And they're, they're selling about as quick as we can build them, and we're looking forward to seeing what kinds of applications come from that process. So that's today What about tomorrow.
Someone: This is a pallet with cardboard boxes on it. And if you look around the world, there's about a almost a trillion boxes like this, moved, every year. They're come out of manufacturers and loaded onto trucks, they're taken from trucks and put into warehouses, they're stacked on pallets they're D stack from pallets. They're made into mixed Hugh pallets, they're put back onto trucks, and then they're shipped out to a store. Right now, all of that is done manually. And we think there's an opportunity to help with this. We think a double dirty and dangerous job. A backbreaking job with robots. So this is a prototype of a robot that's only got one purpose in life. And that's the handle medium size cardboard boxes that weigh less than about 35 pounds.
Someone: And it can pick it uses a vision system to both locate the pallets that they're on, and to identify the box among the other boxes. And this is a task where each of the pallets, that is being picked from our one skew or one kind of product, and it's building up a mixed skew, which is how retail stores want their products delivered.
Someone: And so here we're building up Xq pallets. Here we're D Palatine, which happens once the the thing gets shipped to the, to the store.
Someone: And this is happening at large scale all around the world, manually. And we think there's a big opportunity for helping automate that task. And there's a third task we depict here which is unloading the truck.
Someone: This is still in the prototype stage there's still a lot of work to be done, but we're very excited about how the progress we're making the use of the visual system, obviously it's kind of a Boston Dynamics style robot and then it's balancing itself actively as it moves, and it's a mobile manipulation robot not just an arm that's fixed in place but an arm plus the platform.
Someone: Now I want to talk just briefly about what we think of as the future. And that's the Atlas robot. This is the one that I referred to before as our kind of our Laurie Lamborghini really expensive kind of finicky needs a team of specialists just to keep it running.
Someone: But it's really a testbed get the highest levels of performance, and to develop new techniques like new learning and optimization techniques for controlling complex behavior, and also new techniques for hardware.
Someone: If you look at the left side of this picture you see on kind of an old fashioned model of what a robot is that is a computer interacts with a robot with software and tells it what to do.
Someone: But the real situation is that the physical world interacts with the robot too. And there's physics in that world. And because of that side of the problem especially for high performance. The hardware really matters. And so we do a lot of work is much work on developing specialized hardware for a robot like this, as we do on the software.
Someone: Here's some of the specialized hardware that's an Atlas. There's a hydraulic power unit that weighs about five kilograms, and that can produce five kilowatts of power, when the robots operating right above the power supply is a leg. That's a 3d printed leg that has hydraulic pathways actuator bores and places for valves. So that can we get we can get very lightweight components, much lighter weight that you can get by having separate components for all these elements and stitching them together. And there's space frames and manifolds, and many things that we're using advanced 3d printing and optimization design in order to make the robot, what it is. And using those kinds of techniques. We've developed a series of humanoids that started out very big and heavy and and clunky the first one that we built for DARPA for their DARPA Robotics Challenge weighed 375 pounds. It was slowe it range of motion was limited, but through a series of developments. We made a robot that's kind of my size the perfect size, unfortunately I've kind of slipped from that 165 pound weight so. But that's what it, that's where the robot is and has all the strange range of motion and capability actually more than the original robot so we're very excited about that. And we're continuing down this path of developing hardware that's even faster and stronger and more capable.
Someone: So I'll just show you a clip of
Someone: Atlas in action.
Someone: Using athletic AI in order to run.
Someone: Do a little jumping.
Someone: We're working on park or.
Someone: And we started putting together some simple gymnastics routines
Someone: that really led us test rapid behavior development optimization techniques, machine learning, and the like.
Someone: So I think this robot is really for for us internally is.
Someone: Thank you.
Someone: This robot internally is really exciting because it lets us think about the long term problem of understanding how people and animals work in terms of their mechanisms and control and try and capture some of that and maybe even using the robots as tools for furthering an understanding of people, animals, and also just the engineering challenges of making advanced robots. Thank you very much.
Someone: That thing gone. Okay, I'm coming out now.
Someone: All right, a poll conducted in September of this year by progressive thing Tak. Think Tank data from progress in partnership with Hugh Gov blue showed that nearly two thirds of Americans would support, breaking up tech firms by undoing recent mergers, such as Facebook's acquisition of Instagram. If it means ensuring more competition in the future. This isn't particularly surprising politicians have both sides of the aisle have been ramping up their scrutiny a big tech recently. But as elections near and as the power of these companies continue to grow. Will anything actually be done in conversation with Mark Di Stefano of BuzzFeed, please give a big web summit Welcome to Secretary General of Amnesty International Kumi Naidoo and European Commission, Vera Jourova.
Someone: Thank you so much.
Someone: It's like the set of Terminator backstage, it's very creepy, um, I want to say thank you so much Vera and Carey, I it's going to be an amazing conversation because it really does feel as though, big tech and whether we break up big tech is the question of this conference. These are US companies, of course, Vera.
Someone: So there's as much as the European Union can do it's still a question for us legislators. What do you think the European Union's role, going forward in breaking up big tech companies will be. Well, first of all, hello. Let me apologize for being just an ordinary normal person.
Someone: I really am happy you don't force me to dance, only to answer the question.
Someone: The role of the Union, Europe, European Union is to promote digital technologies and artificial intelligence and to come up with the reasonable rules in case something goes wrong, and this is your question. This is a little bit American question, it sounds to me, to break up the, the digital Baker become companies are not, we are looking at it from different angles, one thing is the competition rules, because of what we see, for instance, in case of Facebook discrimination of power through having the advertising business fully under control, plus the position of possession of the huge amount of private data. It is something we are addressing already by the data protection regulation by the GDPR, and also my colleague Margrethe Vestager is looking at what they are doing, through the competition rules which are other strict in the EU, but maybe we will have to renew them to update them a little bit to capture better the digital reality.
Someone: Then there are other things, we are going to watch at, especially the illegal and harmful content.
Someone: We will might come with Mr. Bruce, which will clarify this issue. Then of course security and cyber security issues so we are going to look at it from different angles and speaking about the breaking up of the companies, this is the last resort solution we call it atomic bomb, which we really don't want to use.
Someone: We want to apply our European rules on these companies and to be very strong on enforcement of the rules. The EU is well placed for that. I think, and our Member States is expected the EU to act and to come with the rules. Also we are best place for it I think in global scope because we are not driven by big money, which is the American case, I think, and we are not going Chinese way. When I think that the digital technologies are used by the state for getting more control over the society so now in Europe, we want technologies which serve to people, not vice of ourselves, and we want the technologies to be regulated, to the extent which is necessary, breaking up is not our program the atomic bomb, it's the atomic bomb and which company do you think the atomic bomb is coming for which which company do you think is the one that needs breaking up, is it Facebook or Google or Amazon. The companies who are the formulation of power is so huge that when we see that it's not balanced with responsibility, then it's becoming dangerous, but I am not saying that we will use this atomic bomb by saying that the possibility that we could act in this direction is already quite strong deterrence factor Kumi, I want to come to you.
Someone: There's actually a human rights argument for breaking up big tech companies that this accumulation of power from these companies has meant that minorities and communities that are subjected to abuse or subjugation from autocratic governments are finding themselves repeatedly outside of US and Europe, and Europe, they finding themselves open to abuse by these tech companies can I get you to sort of talk about that what what do you think that there's a human rights, argument here. Absolutely no question about it. I mean, when I was a young activist in South Africa, in the 1980s we used to say information is power. Today, data is power, and the asymmetrical nature of the power is terrifying. We have never had a moment in history where corporations and governments have the kind of access to who we are, who we engage with what we like.
Someone: Even our medical conditions because if you have a Fitbit watch that can be triangulate it into the data, and so on. So, the question about the breakup. For example, it is of course a no brainer that, you know, just Facebook and Google control a global public square of one third of the population of the planet, and as citizens, we are given a difficult choice, but we are told, you can either opt in to use these online resources and opting in means you have to give up your privacy. Give up your autonomy and allow your data to be commodities. At the first level but also then to be weaponized, as we saw that happened in the elections, but also it's also being weaponized on an ongoing basis for hate and so on so you either have an option to opt into that, or to opt out to the benefits of the modern world. And that is not the choice that we should be given and bear in mind while breakup is where the conversation is, and we as amnesty would encourage that conversation to go forward.
Someone: But be careful that that's not going to deal with the problem because you can break up these companies and still have the same surveillance model, which is what Harvard professor Susana Zubov calls surveillance capitalism and really what we are dealing with is today, you know, people used to talk about the military industrial complex. Today we can talk about the surveillance industrial complex. So given all of these things.
Someone: The way things are going is threatening the very definition of what it means to be human. Right. And I would like to quote, If you think I'm being dramatic. Let me quote we like we like dramatic we like to quote me.
Someone: Let me quote the ex CEO of Google, Eric Schmidt, when he said, we know where you are. We know where you've been. We can more or less, know what you are thinking about is that the path for humanity going forward, that we give that amount of power to one company in the world. This is not what democracy looks like. This is not what empowerment looks like. This is not what good governance, looks like and this is certainly not what protects people's human rights, there was a.
Someone: I mean, 10 years ago, there was so much promise around tech companies and social movements. I'm thinking about the Arab Spring, and then we saw social movements like black lives matter really bubble up through Twitter, do we do you think that there's a shift that's happened over time or has there been a point where did it go wrong, where are we at now that we're now discussing it is a true ill and an evil, when really 10 years ago at a conference like this we would have been praising the role of tech, so let's be very clear. Amnesty International and the other civil society organizations working on this area. I'm not anti technology. We are pro technology, and we would align ourselves to many of the comments that Vera just made. We want city citizens to be able to access these resources that have many positive benefits, but it should not come at the choice of people without their consent, not only giving a privacy. It's not simply about privacy it's about giving up your potential to live as on autonomous being with your own identity and so on. I think we did make a mistake. A couple of years ago, when governments were moving in on regulation. Let's be clear we stood with the tech companies, and said to governments because we were anxious about governments trying to intervene and so on. But I think when we reflect on it we did not think that some of these tech companies will evolve in a way where they would see to modify data in the way that they've done, and that they would allow it to be weaponized. It is absolutely unacceptable for example, that as we sit in this whole that fox news. Right, otherwise known by many people as Trump TV. Right. As denied the republican party and President Trump, the right to run certain adverts on on fox news because they said it was factually highly flawed and so on. And now, Facebook says, We will run it. Like, what a Wright is Facebook defending when they are doing this. Is it the defending the right to politicians to lie that Wright politicians take for themselves, every day of every year, the Facebook doesn't need to help politicians to lie, but generally speaking, I'm hoping Vera.
Someone: Right, so we don't need Facebook to be, because they driven by profit right and when they got that 5 billion fine. Right. For example, I mean 5 billion pounds fine for Facebook is less than a parking fine. The next day the share price went up. Right. And and I want to quote the effective Khatib, I love it. Yeah, the Federal Trade Commissioner. That gave the minority judgment in that case, Roy Chopra said the proposal settlement does little to change the business model or practices and imposes no meaningful changes to the company's structure of financial incentives. So we want to continue to be able to draw from the benefits of social media, and to be able to communicate messages of justice, how we address climate change and so on. But it should not be at the expense of people without actively making the choice to give up on the privacy on the right to determine their own identity. Very well, it was very interesting for me when I came into this story of data protection newly in 2014 as the Commissioner of the of the European Union. This my personal history. When I lived half of my life in totalitarian regime.
Someone: And suddenly I saw my God, the people don't have any choice. Is it really our current reality, it reminds me of my past before 1989, when we didn't have any choice we didn't have any freedom to decide the basic things of our lives. And I realized that we are doing the right thing with GDPR that we are bringing art Lais. I know that the monster is not so easy to repeat but oddly, the people now have more under their control. What's happening to their private data. And we have a very intensive debate over the with the Federal Trade Commission and the US Congress about whether the United States will come with similar law as GDPR has any Rob because there is bigger and bigger demand in the United States from the sight of the people, for being more or better protected so there is something happening and I, I really dream about creating some global standards, at least for the protection of privacy of people, the argument that the tech companies will roll out is that if you break up them. You'll see companies in China. Moving on their lawn, and they need to be big to compete against China and there's really no doubt on amongst these, both of you that we want liberal values underpinning companies. Can I can I get you to respond to that vero What do you think to the argument that it's basically, We need to stay big to make sure that China's tech companies don't get out of control. I don't see any reason why the European Union should be the battlefield between the United States and China on this, we have our rules we have our high level of protection of Europeans. When the companies want to operate on the European market bit American or Chinese wants they have to respect our laws. And if not, we will sanction them. And those $5 billion of the sanction it referred back to 2011 law.
Someone: So that's why I mentioned that in America, something is happening to upgrade it because inevitably we have to react on it, so that the sanctions are not only a pocket money of the bosses of the other giants in GDPR we have 4% of annual wealth turnover. This is something which might keep them disciplined, yeah. Carry on China. So, when amnesty was campaigning against Google's dragon fly project in China. One of the arguments that Google gave was all Chinese tech companies are going to be much worse than we would be right. This is not about lowering the bar. This is about lifting the bar too is tenants it's like saying that in country x that has child labor. And if the US were to do child labor, they would do it better than our country X would do it. I mean just doesn't make sense we should not have any children on any factory floor for example. So similarly, the idea of using China as excuse on this question is not helpful and and and I have to say, pay tribute here that Google dragon fly would never have been defeated with not four decent workers in those companies tech workers will organize themselves as a tech workers coalition, and I use this opportunity to appeal to each and every one of you who are workers in the range of companies, we rely on you to stand up for human decency for justice and human rights, and to stand up against malpractices by your leadership like many of you are willing to do, and we honor those of you have stood up and partner with us and we will continue to work with you to defend the rights of all human beings on this planet to have a just access to the tools of the internet and social media.
Someone: We've got about a minute to go so Vera I want to just sort of ask you. This is the second time you've been at web summit last year was your first. I mean this year the conversation is around big tech breaking up if you're going to be here next year, 12 months from now, do you see what what action. Do you say between now and then, what what can actually be concrete things that are going to happen at will be after the American presidential elections. No. Well, around the same time.
Someone: I think that the debate will be, to what extent the tech should be regulating. What's politically politically correct was the truth. What false. I think that we will have to speak about whether it's not dangerous, too much for our democracy and hope for the way we love to live in freedom that the tech will be deciding what's the truth. I guess it will be the topic of the next year. And I hope I will come with some reasonable answer so we are going to invest a lot of energy and looking for the workable solution, which will make our democracy, better protected against disinformation and and false political campaigning, without introducing any kind of censorship and damaging the freedom of speech, this will be a heroic task will, everyone. Thank you, guests and enjoy the rest of web summit. Thank you very much.
Someone: November is always a good time to think about what the next year has in store, and here at web summit to actually ask the people who are changing and defining the trends to watch out for. So for the next hot talk we asked has tech plateaued. Are we still going to see truly game changing revolutionary technology excites us, and if so, how and when hunter share their thoughts and conversation with Reuters Jonathan Weber, please put your hands together for the founder of stock x, Josh Luber and the co founder of branch Mada Getty, and the co founder and CEO of Brex, Henrique, Dubugras.
Someone: Thanks. Thanks everyone for being here. Thanks to the panel for joining this conversation and the next wave of tech giants tech does tend to go in waves and one of the things that a lot of people are a little wary about right at this moment is that the funding environment is maybe cooling a little bit there's maybe more caution around very highly valued startups, particularly in the wake of the work debacle and other other events so all of you I think have raised funding relatively recently. I'm curious about your observations on there on the funding environment and where you anticipate that might go from here.
Someone: Yeah. Happy to start. So, I do believe that the we were kind of showed something that was you know my opinion a little bit obvious that gross margins are super important.
Someone: So I think that for businesses that have higher gross margins or closer profitability became a better environment for businesses that a little bit lower gross margin and a little bit further away from profitability. It's a little bit of a worse environment but I think good companies will still be able to get funding and I think maybe the price may adjust a little bit but you know it's good companies I think will still do really well.
Someone: So, and how are your gross margins. Ours are fine.
Someone: You know, if you look at the numbers. There's a very interesting story that's being told about the funding environment right now. Actually there's a lot more money that's being put in seed stages, and a lot less money in series C Series D and I think if you look at very late stage, like some of us, the money is not that different. So it's really interesting when you think about that, what does that mean it means that people are diversifying a lot more at the beginning, and they're putting little checks in a Wai there Poole, and it's easier right now for all of you who are seed stage, or are starting, it's actually easier to raise money, but it will become a lot harder. When you get to the viewer to see when you get to that point where you have to prove. When you have to prefer to ability, people are no longer taking bets on just a story or just a growth. So I think what that means for those of you in the audience who are in the earlier stages is that, be ready. Well be ready with actual numbers to show where the Series B or C which sometimes wasn't the case in the past, because it will be it will be you will get a lot harder than you might you might find it now when you're raising your seeds or your A's.
Someone: Nothing you ever wish to have the type of negative outcomes that have happened with the work and some of the others, but there's so much learning that comes from seeing what these companies have gone through the changes in valuation the changes of money that goes in and out. The all that just non stop content that comes off of that.
Someone: On the other hand, I'm a little bit of a you know that that founder in my own world where like we're just focusing on our own business and if you come out of that and say listen, this is what we're doing in our business and trying to focus on that whether it's profitability or whatever that, you know, you do well in your business, it doesn't really matter actually what's going on for the others. Well, does it does it mean that that profitability has to come sooner to do startups now early stage startups have less runway than they might have had a couple years ago, I don't think that profitability has to come sooner I think the path to profitability has to come sooner. Yep. So yes, I don't think you need to be necessarily profitable, you're raising money and you can invest in growth, but you have to show a real path that you could be profitable if you chose not to grow you, you have to show them that you have a path versus I think in the past you could to show growth numbers look at our hockey stick graph, were amazing. I don't think that's true anymore You have to show the numbers and how the math will add up as you scale. I think the the comments you made about that if you want to, you know, one of the questions that we get asked a lot from reporters who aren't necessarily in the tech world are is are you profitable. And my answer is always, we're trying really hard not to be. That doesn't mean the unit economics aren't profitable, it doesn't mean that economics aren't great, but we're trying really hard to put as much money smartly back into the company for growth exact while still maintaining those unit economics and that's really the key to be able to show that. And then it's great to go forward and grow.
Someone: Yeah, well I think, you know, I agree with you but there's a there's a tricky aspect to that because if before we were actually had to expose their numbers. If you ask them, they would say oh yeah well you know we could be profitable but you know our individual buildings you know that I'm sure are profitable but we're just investing in growth and that's why we're losing all this money. And then, actually, that wasn't really true. The nomics the business didn't really work, and I think the right investors are actually going and looking at your unit economics and we see you know some of the in our rounds we see people who are doing a ton of diligence to actually understand how the unit economics works what the scalability model What's our growth rate, like how much is our CAC the kind of things that are asked now at the board level. It's actually the they go pretty in depth into understanding your business model, which, from my experience that didn't used to be didn't didn't used to happen as much. When growth was the only thing that mattered. Yeah, and I think also you know it's it's hard to say hey, growth doesn't matter because if you look still the public markets. People are still valuing growth a lot right. People can say whatever they want about Uber but you know it's still a $45 billion company, much less than the seven year hundred that was thrown out there but still $45 billion is a lot, a lot of money.
Someone: A little less today but yeah maybe a little less of after the lock of expired but i think that you know growth is still highly valued but they were like they were saying you need to show that you're investing in the right things that are bringing growth I think the story of, Hey, you know we're growing now we'll figure out how to monetize later or, you know, that has a bigger risk discount now. But again, it's still growth is highly valued but evaluations are adjusting, right.
Someone: So, in this phase of the internet there, there are these very very powerful big platform companies out there that dominate a lot of a lot of parts of the business. In this panel we have very different sectors right Josh e kind of e commerce internet infrastructure maybe if I could call that FinTech, I mean what were what are going to be the some of the key areas where you can really build a mega, kind of, kind of company. What are they sort of gaps in the current sort of monolithic, you know, internet ecosystem that we have. So I think FinTech is one that's ripe for disruption because if you think just about the market cap of banks around the world is trillions of dollars right it's not even billions or hundreds of billions literally trillions of dollars market cap of banks around the world. And I think FinTech is just starting to take a little bit of market share, but there's still like a lot. Way to go, and I think now fin techs are starting to rebuild core products that the banks usually didn't so I think a lot of them started at around the edges of lending to specific sector or doing cards for a specific sector like ourselves but now a lot of them are launching, you know, bank account replacements, and there's like for even new banks, coming up in Europe and the US, that are completely replacing the relationship, a customer might have with a bank and I think this is the win for FinTech when it starts to become really disruptive in which a new customer for example, can have a relationship just have Brex and never have a relationship with a bank. So, wouldn't the skeptic me would say well the fin techs are basically they're destined to be bought by the banks right successful FinTech, as you say, these gigantic banks out there and, you know, something really starts to be a threat they they buy it reconsolidated everything. I think a lot of my fellow FinTech founders in the more late stage they would all say the same thing as I did that even if a bank tried we wouldn't sell because they would kill the business.
Someone: And I mean, they're becoming very expensive right like I, I was just in Brazil meeting with the founder of new bank and their deca corn like they're not a cheap check if someone wanted to buy these companies. I think when I think about tech in disruption and we were talking earlier, and I was watching from the backstage the stage, the talk before about the breaking up of big giants. And there's this idea that I think right now, there are these companies who have more power than governments or states, they know more about you than you know. I grew up in communism then the people that then the government knew about people in communism and it's it's a very scary thought from a user perspective, but it also gives brands who are trying to grow, incredibly little power. They depend on these very monopolistic companies who are owning the customers and are making it incredibly hard they're very egotistical and they only think about themselves and then them owning the users. So I think the next wave will be actually breaking down the barriers and we're seeing anonymity becoming bigger. We're seeing companies who are starting to actually exist across the standards from this platforms and trying to create something in between. So instead of, you know, the big companies that grew by building walls and building walled gardens. I think the next wave of tech giants is are going to be the giants that are breaking down those walls and actually creating more democracy both for the user. And for the brands like the mobile ecosystem for example right now. It is really owned by platforms, and as a brand 97% of the time that you guys spend in apps is actually spending only 10 apps. And there's 5 million apps in the ecosystem, that's no longer there will be a revolution, there will be people who will disrupt that where we can just move all those people into one app to buy all their sneakers and street where, you know, we compete an ecosystem where Amazon and eBay are the two biggest players right i mean we're trying to create a different model with an e commerce and you started by asking what what what what sectors what areas are there, and I think we're all going to gravitate towards the sectors that we play in to talk about it. But, you know, to Tamaz point there's such an opportunity in. I mean, literally, using the internet to look at those long tail opportunities to create new big sectors, right in front of it right like what we're doing and not to go on a long path about stock x, but it's a completely different model than eBay and Amazon, that somehow sits right in between it that we didn't notice before because we just didn't have the data, we didn't have the breath of Axios of products that now we do and literally you can say this is what the internet was made for right, the long tail of opportunities that come there and we built a billion plus business right in the middle of these two monolithic businesses and and that does does that model have the ability to be on the scale of an Amazon or eBay I mean not not literally but yeah but really the question is, you know, is it a kind of a niche model that that's good for certain kinds of products but not really as a general retail platform. Yeah, I mean that that is that is the question right particularly as we started this conversation around, you know, what do you look for when you're talking about you know building these these big businesses but for stock x it's not about the nice sneaker business but it's about this unique model of taking the stock market works and applying it to ecommerce. Right. And so, by the way, there's always going to be massive amount of products that should be sold on an eBay like model or an Amazon like model, but this is a third form of of e commerce where there's a whole lot of products to sit in here too. By the way, this is truly just supply and demand I mean we're, we're a supply and demand driven model. Amazon is a commodities based model where everything is sort of the same and eBay is a unique one of a kind Model Model. So there is a lot a lot of products that sit in the middle, and it may not ever be as big as Amazon, but it's still really big and for those that sit in the middle because it's not just about one particular product. Yeah, and I think that, you know, it's kind of like the innovators dilemma like a lot of great companies started as Nisha is right like yeah, I think Facebook always people as Oh, it's college is big enough for Amazon his books big enough for for us. Our startups big enough but if you can serve a market, more efficiently than the incumbents and they think it's too small or too an issue for them. That's how disruption starts.
Someone: So, one of the almost cliches about the business. Currently, the, the insurance industry at large, is that the power of data that the that the big companies, kind of control the data. And that's a gating factor for anyone else wants to come in because you just don't have that, you know, access to that information I mean how do you how do you kind of overcome that, that problem.
Someone: I mean FinTech would be, you know, a good case in point. I think the way we're thinking about data is making a fair deal of the user in which they control their data but they decide to give it to us. So, the way we underwrite we underwrite based on a lot more data than traditional banks we look at companies cash balances and revenues and margins and a lot of other data, but in return we give them no personal guarantee, so they are not personally liable for our current anymore, much higher limits faster onboarding a better experience, but it needs to be agreed of the user they know the type of data that they're providing us and they know what they're giving in return, and we don't get an inch of data more than that.
Someone: Yeah, it's, it's really interesting I mean data is a really interesting concept for us because we're this linking infrastructure so we take people to content so we and we help you understand the entire user journey. So, so data is interesting here like how much data is it good for user experience like you understand that this is the same user on your website across different browser, that's great, but knowing what that user is probably not that great right. And I think the big companies have a lot of data but it's getting them into trouble, they're getting sued they using the data to match their advantage and I think the next generation of companies and the way we think about it we're really privacy first. And we think about keeping as little data as possible about the user to give them a good experience. So we actually like we match two different browsers and then we delete everything about the user, we don't know where they are we don't we don't we don't want anything that actually identifies the user. And I think that's very different than the way I think some companies used to think about that it was always about let's keep as much data as possible. We don't even know we use it all. We don't know even how to use this data because it's so much of it that's the problem with the data, and we've taken the opposite approach to that we were saying, actually, we don't want this data we don't want to know anything about the user, we will keep Elizabeth data as possible to give someone a good experience without like tracking them more and knowing anything about them. It's interesting, we kind of sit right in between these two which is we've created different data, right, the shoes that I'm wearing this is a shoe that retails for about 150 hundred and $75 at Nike, it was immediately reselling at stock x for 1500 dollars. So Nike has all that data about that customer that paid $150 for the shoe. We have all the data on the customers that are willing to pay 1500 dollars for the shoe, and it's just a completely different customer set. It's completely different experiences a completely different access to what you would do with that data and why and so that's really the distinction that we've made in the products that we sell and then how we then use that often back with the brands when it's necessary.
Someone: So it's data, data protection laws, which are kind of constraints on the big companies. Are they good for for startups.
Someone: I think I it depends on where you sit I'm sure but but but for this panel I mean are our data protection laws are positive.
Someone: I think that, you know, and in a general term It's hard to predict from one hand, it will protect the user from the other hand, every kind of regulation creates some barriers of entry. So you know we're in a regulated industry that's been regulated for a long time so we're already used to having a lot of regulation but you know early on we had to put a lot of legal infrastructure to just to be able to operate and for a new startup you know that's kind of burdensome. So I think if you know the regulator's get to a point in which the data regulation, the skew high higher for larger companies and lower for startups are starting out, I think that's the best model compared to being like the same for everyone.
Someone: And I think the problem with data is the thinking behind the regulation is great. I think that what the regulation stands for and the thoughts behind that are, you know, to protect the data I think sometimes the way the regulation is put in practice is not always as well thought through, and people who are creating the regulation sometimes are not as familiar with that with deck. So if you look at something like GDPR Wai GDPR stands for is amazing. There are portions and parts of GDPR that are very hard to implement for startups and the way GDPR was actually thought through from an implementation perspective is not always the easiest thing to understand. While you know the notion behind it is actually positive for the industry as a whole. So are you saying that the regulators should use data to make better regulations about data. I think the Yes, and they should talk to more tech companies they should be more familiar with tech before they actually come up with regulation that will be my, my request is.
Someone: If I lived in a perfect world with that.
Someone: Are there other kinds of regulations that that you think would help to level the playing field with some of these giant companies, I mean monopoly I think if you look at the bigger companies they're using the monopoly in one area to promote other areas, you have companies like Google, who are owning the phone they're owning the ecosystem. They're doing deals with phone manufacturers where in order to use the Andrei store, you actually have to use their search so using, I think, taking stabbing so much power in so many parts of the ecosystem is incredibly dangerous and I think Europe is at the forefront of actually trying to curb that think in other parts of the world, learning from Europe would be incredibly powerful.
Someone: Yeah, yeah, I think in FinTech also Europe is definitely ahead I think that for example, and UK there's this ass this concept of a sandbox like a FinTech sandbox in which companies can be started and you know they don't need to comply with everything they want so they can test out try to get product market fit, and they would love to see things like that, within all aspects of regulation in which you know if you're fully funded and you're worth billions of dollars have a lot of money, obviously like you can have a lot of legal infrastructure comply everything but if you're just starting out, you want to decrease the barrier of entry to increase competition, which is ultimately good for the customer and and do you think, I mean, as you said, financial, services, very highly regulated sector but are there are there kind of regulations that you think are needed new new kinds of regulations. I think definitely different. Now that more companies are providing banking life services without being a bank I think it's missing some regulation in the US specially in Europe it's a little bit better around regulating those companies.
Someone: And, you know, because the court thing of a bank is you get consumer deposits and then you lend out money. That's the main thing of being a bank, but a lot of companies are providing a lot of bank like services without being a bank and they don't use consumer deposits.
Someone: So it's much safer for the country. And I think that they're being all piled together today so I think separating and creating you Brazil has some Europe have some but the US specially is missing I think some of these more niche kinds of regulation.
Someone: Josh, you know, We are a stock market for commerce and we are not today subject to the same, you know, FinTech regulations that that most of the finance world is. But I think we'll probably end up there sooner rather than later. In fact, right now as we from a consumer standpoint, having China's as like every other person selling anything is near the top of the list. There's been regulation there's been government discussion in China on secret companies acting like stock markets on people allowing people to buy and sell shoes without ever taking possession. And what does that mean are you regulated as a commodities exchange Are you regulated as an e commerce company. These are the things as we just seek to merge these worlds together that I think we're going to eventually run into but today we're not quite there yet. Yeah, so people, people speculating on. Yeah, sneaker values right so 1,000% right. Yeah, the products that we sell, there is massive amounts of money to be made buying and selling them, but at the core of our business and the others in our industry. We're marketplaces right we're evolutions of eBay, all we're doing is connecting buyers or sellers to buy or sell that product, the fact that people can then make a lot of money buying and selling them, and then invest in that. And you can see where the logical extension that goes where ultimately you can buy and sell shoes without ever taking possession of them. You're very quickly in an area that actually does need regulation. And have you been approached by regulators.
Someone: Know. Or at least, at least not that. not that I know of, I should say, and that's not a quick answer, it's just that we're only scratching the surface of working with brands to release products, but literally two weeks ago we did an IPO with Adidas, and that stands for initial product offering were DS released a product directly into the market through stock x, and let the market set that price, as opposed to an arbitrary retail price right so you can see the evolution of this where you move into this, this area where that product then continues to get sold, and then bought and sold and traded in this stock x market, the same way an IPO would happen of of whatever a Facebook stock into the marketplace and that continues to get traded. So that's really the evolution of what we're trying to do and so at some point I do imagine that that there it's just inevitable, as we move closer down that path. Okay, great. Well we're out of time. Thank you very much. All for your for your time and your thoughts. Thank you.
Someone: Over the past four days, it has been a great honor to have some a Portugal's most promising promising culinary students join us at web summit, playing a very and really important role in feeding thousands of guests, Portugal is renowned is globally renowned for its food from the grass on the Azores that create great Dairy and Meat towards a lengthy Atlantic coastline, which gives access to some of the best fish in the world. I would like to ask for all of you to give a huge round of applause. As I'm delighted to invite some of these students to join us on stage now.
Someone: Keep it going. Come on. It's a long walk.
Someone: And it's been delicious It's been a delicious time.
Someone: All right, come on get close to me let's take a photo together.
Someone: Right.
Someone: clap it out. Come on, let's clap it out.
Someone: Okay, thank you very much guys thank you. Thank you.
Someone: All right, let's raise the house lights a little bit.
Someone: We're gonna do a little experiment. Hold your phone up your mobile phone, if you have been using it in the last two minutes.
Someone: All right, hold it up. if you've been using it in the last minute.
Someone: And how many people are using it while I'm talking.
Someone: Okay, great. We live in a world where words like check neck and scroll thumb makes sense to us because of how much time and energy we spend looking, and even living on our phones. But the truth is, we've only scratched the surface of discovering the physical and mental impact of our growing dependence on our devices. Here dive deeper into this please give a warm round of applause in conversation with cnet's, Katie Collins, the founder and CEO of hinge, Justin McLeod and Professor of Clinical Psychology at Kings College, London Dame til Wykes.
Someone: Hello and welcome to this discussion on tech addiction here on center stage. Before we begin, I just like to start with a quick raise of hands. Who among you feels you might suffer with technology addiction.
Someone: Quite a few. Who is not sure about addiction, but definitely is looking to create a healthier relationship with technology.
Someone: Again, quite a few. And what we only have 20 minutes is unlikely we can give you all the answers you're looking for in that time but we'll give it a go. And now I'm going to start off with a seemingly simple question. Justin, do you think a tech tech addiction is a real thing.
Someone: Yes, I do.
Someone: When we think about addiction, I don't really think that there's too much of a discrepancy between a behavioral addiction and a chemical addiction when your brain, I don't think really knows the difference it's going to get those same neuro chemical hits, whether you're taking a shot of alcohol or a line of cocaine or pulling out your phone to check that latest push notification, you're still activating the same reward pathways in your brain and that is ultimately what we get addicted to. So, I think absolutely tech addiction is something that we really should consider just alongside any other addiction. Great. Until you describe yourself as a skeptic when it comes to tech addiction. Could you tell us a little bit about where that skepticism originates. I just think there's a lot of hype around the idea of tech addiction. In fact gaming disorder is now a disorder that the who last year, agreed to and it is now a diagnosis, and certainly in some countries like particularly career, it's been an issue that they have raised with the who, but it hasn't been one that actually I've come across within the UK, and I'm skeptical because you know in psychiatry, mainly we we increase the sort of normative boundaries and called some things disorders when actually they're not really a mental health diagnosis. And I'm very wary of making that the case for tech addiction. Tech is useful, and people use it all the time, to help them with their, often with their work. But I don't necessarily think for those people who put their hands up, that they're really addicted to the tech. If you took the tech away. I don't think they would have the kinds of experiences that people with physical addictions have, like, with cocaine with substance abuse sorts of disorders, and I don't want to make it too fuzzy that relationship between what is really a physical disorder, and what might be a behavioral issue, which sometimes may be because people are responding to problems in their lives. So they're paying more attention to tech, but I'm not sure that you could say that most adolescents who spent a long time on tech are addicted to that tech, so you're sort of saying that these issues, perhaps originate inside for different problems a depression or anxiety or OECD and tech addiction is more an expression of that other mental health problem is that, I think that's one way of looking at it, I definitely think that's one way of looking at it, but I'm just really worried that we shouldn't make things that are frequent that was that lots of people who put their hands up and said they were addicted to tech. I just don't think that that's that frequent an issue, is it that we are using the wrong term, should we perhaps be, you know, when you think about addiction, it is quite a clinical term like the World Health Organization does classify addictions, should we perhaps be referring to it as dependency or something that's a bit more. I think we're all dependent on tech, you know, who could run through a whole day without looking at their email or their phones for some other reason. I do think those little pop ups at the end of the week which says you've increased your face time on some out of I 25% a bit scary, but actually I do lots of things as well as doing stuff on tech, so I don't think it's tech addiction is because we have anxiety or depression. I think some people who have anxiety or depression may go on to tech and use it for other reasons. I just think that we need to be careful we're not creating something to be treated. And I think that's the bit where you wander into the kind of medical clinical sphere, and that bit I do worry about Justin, I imagine you might disagree with us somewhat, and I know that addiction has been something that has been part of your life. And I was wondering if you could perhaps tell us whether you have seen any parallels. I definitely see the parallels and I don't think it's that interesting a conversation to get too caught up because we're still having this conversation with drugs and alcohol and I have a lot like I was a former alcoholic and drug addict like I definitely have experience in that space and and people are still debating whether that's like a moral issue that we're, you know, trying to clinical eyes is like alcoholism and drug addiction and honestly like. I think the medical community and pretty much the whole world is sort of accepted that that drug and alcohol addiction is a real thing and not just like a moral like problem. But I don't even think that really matters. I think what we we agree, is that it's a problem, right, the way that people are using technology is a problem and there's certainly a feedback loop between. Maybe it is I had depression so I'm over reliant on technology but also the more that I spend time sucked into a screen that promises to make me feel more connected to my friends and connect the world around us, but actually disconnects us polarizes us keeps us glued to our screen disconnects us from our bodies. I think we would all agree that like, that's a bad thing, and whether you want to call it addiction or you don't want to call it addiction is not even a. It's something that I think is, I don't, I don't care. Okay, well, I agree. As long as we don't call it addiction, then I think we can talk about how people spend their lives the kind of etiquette there should be about being being with somebody or being on tech, I do think that's something that we can talk about. And I think that in general we are spending too much time with our technology, but we shouldn't make it a moral issue of whether you're on technology or off technology, I think it's an issue of just making sure we manage that technology us and that the technology is useful to us, and doesn't. I mean, clearly, make changes. So we know it changes your way in which you sustain your attention. We know it changes the way in which you process information and how deeply you process it. I've noticed that I if I'm reading something printed on a piece of paper. I read it and I take the information in in a completely different way to effectively scanning it on fast, you know speed reading it on a screen. And I think that is an issue which we need to think about for the future because we want our kids. We want our adolescents we want our young adults to be not using their attention in that way we want them to use sustained attention and help have helpful learning skills. Yeah, I saw some really interesting research the other day that suggested that you know this new digital generation that are growing up and haven't known anything other than this world with technology and are not really distinguishing between the online and offline worlds in the same way as we do. And I think that, you know, one thing that I was talking about on the the panel that I did yesterday was, how do we develop these self regulation skills in this environment that's been designed to be deeply seductive to us.
Someone: It's it, I think it's the responsibility of us as individuals and as us as tech creators like at hinge our tagline is literally designed to be deleted, and that's because we try to design around the, the user's true need like why did they come to us when you open a dating app theoretically you're trying to get out on a date and get off dating apps and so we try to design our experience around meeting that need. And, and I think there's all kinds of tech out there that certainly would not classify as addictive Uber's not addictive, you know, Spotify is not addictive when I, when I opened Uber I want to ride, I get a ride. It takes me across town to where I wanted to go and my driver doesn't try to sell me on other places I could go and ways he could get more time and ride. And, you know, new things I could see it's just he takes me to where I want to go and that's it. And I think that's more of what we want and need from technology and I think so many creators. Get lost along the way and to think well what we could be making more money. I hope I'm not getting Uber idea right advertising new places you could stop along the way and let your driver wait outside but that is, that's what happens as creators and they stopped engineering around what my need is as a, as a user of this product and instead it's what their need is for me to have sustained attention so that they can essentially harvest it and sell it to that to the highest bidder and advertising. Yeah, and that's where I think it, it really starts to get broken. And then as we as individuals, also like, I don't think we should just sit around waiting for you know Google and Facebook to wise up and be thoughtful about this I think that we need to protect ourselves and I think that's another huge part of this conversation. Yeah, I mean you mentioned, Google and Facebook there and you know say that we have to take responsibility but surely they should also have to shoulder some of the responsibility, and you know also perhaps not offload that responsibility on to newer companies like yours are coming up with different ways for us to interact and til Do you think that we need these big tech companies that have been dominating our attention for years now, to rethink perhaps, how, how they're making money from us. Because it's clearly for all developers they're trying to grab our attention, so that we stay online enough so they can. So because we're the product in this we're not actually using a service. We are the product we are giving them our data and GDPR the conversation that was, that was just before this one is a European wide directive and it's really useful because at least that starts to educate the public into where information goes that they have. But until I think we need to we do need to educate the public, but we also need to have the public think we need to buy some of these services so you buy Uber, and you can sign up two different kinds of Spotify, those are more than business plans that I think people need, but everybody has made the assumption that the internet is free, and if the internet is free somebody is going to be trying to make money out of it and the only way is by buying your data. So maybe we need to think much more about subscription models for these, and everybody tells me the everybody being anybody in the tech field who's a developer that argument is lost. I don't know that we can lose it. I think it's pretty vital that we start to take responsibility for what data we give to people and actually they pay if they're using it they pay us for it rather than the other way around. Justin, you are a entrepreneur. I'm sure you've had to have these discussions within your company and you know, think through how you're going to negotiate this world of data is, as you build your own company. And how have you negotiated that. Well, I just think about it as it's, it's so interesting and so kind of sad and what a missed opportunity that we have all these amazing minds and they're in it you know in the product development rooms at Facebook and Google and all they're thinking about is how do we like get people to spend more time using our service and not, like, I think it really just takes a refocusing of, like, what are we targeting What's our metric, how are we think is it is it time in app or is it is it, can we measure actually what our users came for us. What if, Facebook, actually measured. You know how connected people felt when they were using it did they feel more fulfilled or they feel more deeply connected to their friends, I think it'd be it would feel like a very, very different product and that's what we tried to do at hinge is, again, instead of making it fun and engaging and focusing on growth and DD seven retention and all this stuff that we typically focus on as app developers, we just have one primary metric and that one primary metric is number of date good dates per user per month. Right, so we look at the number of good days per user per month and every feature we introduce we see is it leading to more good dates or fewer good dates, and it's it's really exciting and empowering to have a lot of smart people in a room trying to figure out that problem of how we make people feel more connected. So I think that's that's the solution and then, now we're the fastest growing dating app in the US and the UK and Canada because it was a slower road to growth. But ultimately, we are winning because it's, it really feels like we're delivering on the user need and I think ultimately long term. That's the opportunity to disrupt I don't know if it's regulate Facebook and all this stuff, although certainly that's necessary. But, but where are the apps that are going to come out that actually make us feel more connected and we put it down we don't feel emptier and lonelier. And like we just got compared to everyone, but actually makes us feel like we're supported by our friends and like we can share intimate details about our lives and and connect with other people. I think you're absolutely right. It's unusual to be on the sofa and for me to agree with the person next to me, but the there is an issue of people thinking, Well, what am I using this for. And quite often you, that goal is not the one that is ever achieved, even though it's had a lot of promise and a lot of hype, and particularly for the so called health apps and I use the word so called and the quotes as well because most often they promise something which is never achieved and they never show you any evidence that it's ever going to be achieved, but they promise. And I think that's a really bad promise to people who are already worried about their own mental health and well being and you go on to an app, you, it doesn't work for you, so you feel even worse about yourself, because it hasn't achieved the goal that it was promising. So I do think that's sort of a. It's not necessarily regulation, but maybe the ice doors and placed or should actually have a bit of information and I've said this, not long ago about an hour ago on another stage, is that when you go into a supermarket to buy cornflakes, you can turn the box around and you can read what's on the back of the cornflakes box and make a choice at the moment there's the only choice you get is how many stars, it has which really doesn't tell you very much, until after you've downloaded it and used it, maybe they should be more information available for you to make a choice, and particularly information like what the overall goal is and whether there was any evidence that that goal was ever achieved by anybody using the app. And I think that would be an incredibly helpful thing and probably helpful for hinge too. So, you know, because you'd want to see that people had actually got relationships afterwards and were happy about the way that they manage were managing their lives, that's definitely never true of any of these health and well being apps. All 375,000 of them, which was last year I think probably there'll be another 75,000 added this year.
Someone: And, well, I think that's a really great point. And I'd like to maybe ask Justin as well.
Someone: You know we talked about these offline connections that you're trying to encourage through your app. And, you know, some people might if they don't know your business model and you don't know your app, they might think that using an app to encourage people offline is a contradiction. Whereas, obviously you're kind of showing that this is not the case. And you kind of creating a sort of an example here by which you you know you're not rejecting technology, and you're finding a way to incorporate it into your life in a healthier way. And I'm really interested to know what you think about detoxing and you know whether we should be going cold turkey on tech and or how we should be kind of incorporating apps like yours into our lives in order to make ourselves feel better. Yeah. Certainly not. I mean, it can be useful, you know, extended periods of detox but that's not a sustainable way for us to live our lives and also, like, I'm not a Luddite right like I run a technology company I don't believe that we should just like throw technology out, it's really about how we're using it how how creators are creating it and how we're ingesting it, and so I'm really thoughtful in my life about it like i mean i don't i don't engage I don't have Instagram or Facebook or any of those services I don't use them, I don't even keep slack or email on my phone because it's just too tempting during the day when I'm supposed to be a good husband or a good father or, frankly, even a good CEO, and I'm sitting in a meeting and like people are talking and then I'll like, let me see like what's going on in slack right now. And it's just too tempting I mean really as a former alcoholic and addict.
Someone: I can control myself around alcohol and drugs I cannot control myself around my smartphone. And so, I build things in like not keeping certain apps on my phone I use them when I'm on my computer, I literally have my, my wife has a little code on my phone says parental protections and I can't use. You know certain apps between 8pm and 8am every day so that I completely shut off, and for at least 12 hours a day so I think that those kinds of things are really helpful. I mean I just know from lots of experience like really helpful for my own sanity personal well being personal relationships everything improves when I do these types of things. Okay I want the app turns everything off, iOS, yes.
Someone: because I really do think that's something that we need to think about quite carefully. I think the issue that we have about managing our lives is often this issue of when we're often when we're on. And I'm planning, but I have yet to do it, to actually write in my electronic diary. Today you're going to be bored and not actually put anything in which is, you know, work related or tech related and to just turn everything off and try and get my creative energy back again, and particularly to help me with thinking through specific problems which I don't know that you can do in front of a computer, you need to, kind of, you know, have a long sleep. Because that's you know how the snakes, tied up and form the benzene ring when somebody woke up in the morning and maybe, you know, the housework will get done.
Someone: I'll have a much happier relationship with my partner and I probably will have done some creative things. Yeah, I think I was on a panel about a feature of play yesterday. And we discussed the fact that the it's unstructured play and allowing children to be bored that brings out that creativity in them that allows their imagination to flourish.
Someone: And maybe perhaps being bored is is a skill that we are losing and that we should be. In fact, trying to improve. And now we are nearly out of time, I think. But I just wanted to leave the audience with a kind of suggestion from both of you. If they do want to create a healthier relationship technology with technology. What would be your kind of one solution that you would you would suggest to them.
Someone: I think the simplest thing is is periodic breaks from it. I mean, it's just, everyone describes burnout, my employees at hinge feel burnt like everyone feels burned out these days and I think a lot of it is because the last thing we do before we go to bed at night and the first thing we do in the morning is we're like back on our devices and we don't give ourselves space and and forcing yourself to be bored through those periodic breaks I think is really really important like I wake up at 5am every day and and i don't i can't touch my phone until eight right so I have three hours, where I'm like doing something else and whether it's journaling longhand or something like that that I and that time is when I come up with all my big ideas and then, and how I want to approach my day and, like, that's when I get to like really think through all that stuff. And otherwise, I just wake up and like checking this thing checking that thing and then I like walk into a meeting and say something stupid or, you know, it's just like, it's so much better to have that unstructured time that you can sit with every day and I just think like, that's, I think that's really simplest thing to do.
Someone: Okay, so, I think I said at the beginning that I don't think tech addiction is a crisis. But I do think it's also not just about turning it off for yourself. I think it's about your social relationships and how we manage them, and we just need to develop ways in which and sometimes they may have to be regulations like, turn it all off in the room that nobody around the table when you're talking has a phone with them or any way of connecting. And I think that would start to help us to have these social rules which I think we really do need to help us develop proper relationships with with people in our families and friends and at work, actually, and that you should be talking to people rather than emailing them in the next room. And that actually resolves more problems than those 25 emails you've had to have were you getting closer and closer, about receiving them. Yeah, I like that idea i think you know the. I feel like Facebook is often encouraging us to kind of create these online connections that will be our community and will be our life but i think you know I think you're right I think we need to not forget about our real life and learn to prior re prioritize that again perhaps in our real relationships. And, well, thank you both so much. I feel like you've given everyone so much to think about here. And would you like to join me in giving the panelists, a huge round of applause.
Someone: Thank you.
Someone: CNBC Porsche min to Belinda lingo loser the top you made your end.
Someone: Thank you are not for me Sorry for the video Yes, in less than an hour, we're going to be doing the pitch finals and find out who will be crowned the champion of web summit 2019. We did a little Twitter poll, and from what I see on Twitter, which is not going to be accounted for the final votes but 48% of people on Twitter have voted for banjo Robinson, so we'll find out in less than an hour it banjo Robinson has actually in fact one stick around for the rest of this afternoon. We've got the president of Portugal. We've got the most important woman in technology coming up. But right now, our next guest is President Trump's top Technology Policy Advisor at the White House, where he leads the development and execution of the US tech policy agenda. Please welcome to the stage, Michael Kratsios, Chief Technology Officer of the United States of America.
Someone: Good afternoon. It is such an honor to be with all of you at the 2019 web summit here in Lisbon. I have heard that this is absolutely the best Technology Conference on the planet, and based on the incredible entrepreneurial energy in this room today it is very very clear why here ideas are converging from around the world. They're bridging cultures and bringing together innovators to solve the greatest challenges of tomorrow. enables the best technologists and creators to be in the same room and build off of each other, to help so solve global challenges and make the world a better place for generations to come.
Someone: when Americans come to Europe we have a deep and some way inexpressible sense that we have landed on familiar ground. America inherited a legacy of core institutional and cultural values from Europe, spanning from the earliest reaches of your history. It is because of that legacy that we became a center of innovation and technology, America succeeds because people have an unparalleled freedom to chase their dreams and pursue excellence, citizens are secure in their property, and they are protected by the rule of law. Government defends justice and fair competition. We constantly debate and challenge each other. We passionately stand for the dignity of every person. And we believe that those who create innovate and flourish should not only work to improve their own lives, but serve their neighbors as well.
Someone: Our bottom up system works not because of government management, but because it is driven by the brilliance of good and free people who are confident in our most fundamental rights.
Someone: Upon this proven Foundation, our community of nations has developed technology for the benefit of all people, many important technological inventions of the 20th century originated here in Europe, from the automobile to the telescope, the ingenuity of the United States resulted in the quick adoption of new innovations, expanding upon them, and unleashing new breakthroughs.
Someone: Together we built new modes of communication and transportation, we cure diseases and explore new frontiers. We design tools of every kind to solve our common challenges. The combined strength and power of the US, Europe and our allies to drive technological leadership means our core values will continue to underpin the development and the application of emerging technologies. Our future depends upon America and Europe working together to embrace innovation and defend our free system against our adversaries, that seek to undermine our shared values.
Someone: The United States remains unwaveringly committed to advancing technology leadership at home and abroad.
Someone: The US system is centered on a light touch regulatory approach that advances economic freedom and a commitment to the rule of law, and to human dignity.
Someone: We have done this domestically, with actions to prioritize research and development to build the workforce of the future to address regulatory challenges and to remove barriers to innovation. We embrace an unrivaled ecosystem of innovation built upon the cooperation of academia, the private sector and the federal government.
Someone: When we create an environment for each of these institutions to freely work together, were able to push the boundaries of science and unlock new potential for technological advancement. This is why the United States continues to be the birthplace of incredible innovation. Last month, for example, we prove just how well our system works when American company partnered with the federal government and our world class universities to achieve quantum supremacy, demonstrating that a quantum computer can perform tasks that reached beyond the capabilities of classical computers.
Someone: Our approach rejects the false dichotomy, but somehow we must choose between the benefits of emerging technology on one hand, and following our moral compass, on the other. Importantly, we recognize that we don't need to impose preemptive overly burdensome and innovation killing regulations to stay true to our values. The United States is demonstrating how this model of innovation works through our American AI initiative launched by our president this past February, we're empowering our innovators to boldly pursue r&d, while also developing national standards and guidance on a explain ability safety trustworthiness and other challenging technical and ethical issues. When it comes to technology, the best way to uphold our values is to make sure America and our allies remain v global hubs of innovation. Only then can we shape the global evolution of technology in a manner that is consistent with all of our values. We have taken a number of steps to work with like minded nations to advance innovation and align with our principles around the world.
Someone: We have enhanced cooperation on AI research and development with our international partners, we've committed in the g7 to work with our allies on how AI can be applied to solve challenges that reach across borders from cancer research to emergency response. And we've warned to the dangers of working with repressive regimes that don't share our same values.
Someone: Earlier this year, the United States joined with our allies and the OECD to agree to international principles to advance the trustworthy development of artificial intelligence OECD nations recognize that because AI is essential to our economies, our national security and our quality of life. We must support AI innovation, not restricted. We are committed to developing this emerging technology in a way that promotes public trust, protect civil liberties and respects the privacy and the dignity of every individual
Someone: yet. While we all work together to promote our principles and develop technology for the good of mankind. We must also defend ourselves against an increasingly aggressive government that is undermining our values and subverting the free and fair system that allows all of us to succeed.
Someone: The Chinese government has built an advanced authoritarian state by twisting technology to put censorship over free expression and citizen control over empowerment, through their massive system of censorship. The Great Firewall. The Chinese government violates the privacy of every person their country by monitoring online communications and blocking access to information, the Chinese Communist Party uses technology to control and imprison dissidents activists and minorities, including the Muslim leaders, they degrade the individual dignity of Chinese citizens. By implementing a dystopian credit score, and the government continues, extending its authoritarianism abroad, and in no case, is this more clear than with Huawei Chinese law compels all Chinese companies, including Huawei to cooperate with its Intelligence and Security Services, no matter where the company operates in perhaps the most disturbing account of espionage news outlets have reported after Huawei installed communications technology equipment at the headquarters of the African Union, their computer system was hacked and data was transferred to servers in Shanghai, every single night for five years.
Someone: Yet despite this, in other grave and documented actions that run counter to the values of Europe, America and our allies. Countries continue to consider opening their arms to Chinese companies in order to build critical infrastructure like 5G and develop key technologies like artificial intelligence.
Someone: If we allow Beijing such a profound degree of access and influence in our technology system, we run the risk of repeating the same mistakes, our nation's made nearly 20 years ago, in 2001, our leaders lead China into the World Trade Organization, expecting that as we opened our economies to them, the country would liberalize politically and economically. Instead, China stole our intellectual property. They forced companies to hand over valuable technology, or to access their market, and now they require access to all data, information and secrets contained on any server in China.
Someone: Today we must ask ourselves if we face a similar Crossroads with technology.
Someone: Emerging tech like 5G and AI will underpin everything from our communication systems to our militaries, we fundamentally believe that innovation will uplift and empower people. But if we don't act now, Chinese influence and control of technology will not only undermine the freedoms of their own citizens, but all citizens of the world. And while it took decades for China to shift the gravity of global manufacturing after entering the WTO technology moves at a much faster pace.
Someone: Technological leadership from democratic nations has never been more of an imperative. We must continue to advance innovation. That is ingrained with our approach to human rights, civil liberties privacy and the rule of law. In America we are leading by example. We combat technological repression, with an innovation ecosystem that is the envy of the world. One driven by free market capitalism and bold ideas that advanced science and technology and make our nation prosperous and strong.
Someone: We have also been forced to take steps to stop others from infiltrating our technology infrastructure, stealing American research, and using technology to violate human rights. Earlier this year, our president signed an executive order providing new authorities to ban within the United States, the sale of unsecured communications technologies are present also signed legislation expanding our authority to restrict for investment in US businesses that compromises our critical technology. We commend those nations that have begun to protect their own strategic industries from foreign takeover.
Someone: And we are standing up for human dignity, by restricting Chinese entities that have committed human rights abuses from purchasing American products, and by banning the sale of high tech equipment to known human rights abusers.
Someone: Today we are not just fighting for fairness, or for economic rights.
Someone: We are fighting to defend the free market system that fuels our innovation. We're fighting so technological advances driving our economies, strengthening our security and powering our citizens and defining our future will be built by us with our values. When our values drive innovation, technology that could be used to repress people will lift them up. We will use AI to reinvigorate manufacturing and save lives through improved disaster response, we will use biotech develop individually tailored treatments for diseases, extreme weather resistant crops, we will use quantum computing to explore the origins of the universe and design new chemicals and materials, we will use 5G to revolutionize healthcare with remote surgery and make our roads safer with autonomous vehicles, we will do all these things and so much more. We have the will to make the right choices now, and the courage to ratify our words with actions, the American government is taking a stand and we cannot do this without Europe and our allies around the world. We may not see eye to eye on every aspect of Technology Policy, but we all agree on the principles that matter most. If we want to safeguard our freedom, we must work together. Ultimately, our free system succeeds because power rests in the hands of our people. Companies creators and consumers, like yourselves must decide what future you want. You must be willing to fight for your interests, and for our shared values is up to all of us to support the international ecosystem that relies on fairness on respect, and on reciprocity. It is up to all of us to ensure our innovators have the openness and freedom to thrive. It is up to all of us to defend our technology and our fundamental rights from foreign adversaries. We must act now because the world can change very quickly.
Someone: We have built an age of unprecedented prosperity and technological wonder. Now, we must all recommit to defending the principles that made us great, and we must always build technology that serves our people and inspires hope in the world. Thank you.
Someone: Toronto firmly arrived on the world taxing the fourth largest tech market in all of North America, what we're doing in Canada is making sure that there is room for everyone to succeed in Toronto is having a moment we are building an ecosystem, the Silicon Valley's been around for 50 plus years, this isn't going to happen overnight. I believe the culture of Silicon Valley drove others, to a business model that is incredibly destructive.
Someone: Let's not just sleep walk into a world where technology authoritarianism governs our choices. Technology is all around us, we are constantly being surveilled
Someone: responsible data us is one of the biggest social issues of our time. We have to balance the privacy responsibility site TechCrunch technologies, great. It's about people. We all come together as a people. The world looking right in front of us. We don't succeed. Together, we're all going to fail separate.
Someone: Okay.
Someone: We're getting there everybody just a few more panels. Of course the pitch finals. And then for me, the melancholy feeling of when web summit ends and, you know, we all have to go home to where we're from, but our next guests are at the core of the industry that has changed, an incredible amount over the past 10 years, and will undoubtedly continue to change over the next 10 years and more here to show us what the future holds of music, joining Damian Bradfield of WeTransfer, please give a big web summit Welcome to Christopher Leacock, also known as Jillionaire of Major Lazer and john Michelle Jarre.
Someone: Well, Alice you're stuck around we're worried, you're going to go home by lunchtime but probably because you're Michelle's here. He's been around forever and it's probably one of the most influential people electronic music. I was looking back, and I'm, I was born in 77, I think Christopher you're born in 78 right. Yes sir, but you're Aries. Yes, Aries Yes.
Someone: But it's Kraftwerk Depeche Mode.
Someone: Tom Michelle.
Someone: And when I said to my wife. I'm going to do this interview with john Michelle john she's like oh my god I kiss my first boyfriend to Johnny's.
Someone: We're talking about that when we get back.
Someone: Sorry about that.
Someone: She was very happy about it. But it's so iconic right the music you created is so iconic, and I think it's incredible that you're still interested. And I just came from another talk with Josh Peterson who's somebody who's been in the music industry for a long time and what I think it's so fantastic about guys like you in here that there's still that spark in your eye to want to create. You know to still be intrigued and making things and challenging people and you know pushing boundaries. And what we wanted to get on and talk about today is you know where, where are we today with the music industry and where is it, where is it going to go to. And there's a lot of conversation I mean you just had a couple of talks about tech addiction, and there's concern around, you know, big tech and days and everything else but in the conversations I've had with you guys you've been very positive about the future and especially particularly the future of music. So do you think that's because your creators, and you have a different outlook when it comes to technology that's us.
Someone: Yeah, I think that, you know, with technology being at the core of everything today. I think we, we, we never made. We never been in history in such an exciting time for making music because technology today is opening doors to basically everything. And, you know, it's not a matter of time is matter of curiosity, and today are more more ice more in phase, and volley more curious than there was when the when, when I started a few few decades ago. And I'm here for instance, to, to, to launch this music app called Ian, which is probably my first infinity and web based on the fact that you could. I mean, conceiving a music that would be individual for different for every, every individual. Every time you relaunch it is totally different experience and and also an infinite never ever evolving type of music that would even grow and continue to grow even after my death. So it's something that was actually unbelievable and inconceivable 10 years ago. So, we're talking about this with my friend Jillionaire here, and and it's so exciting to share here the web summit the fact that we should not be scared about the future we shouldn't have this kind of dystopian anxiety attitude towards the future because the emergence of AI is going to, to give us so many different possibilities.
Someone: What do you think Christopher use Ben 10 years, part of Major Lazer touring the world what I see happening is as a huge push towards people marching, marching for the lives marching for women's rights going to festivals more people opening and starting festivals than ever before. Is that because of, in spite of technology. I think that people always want a sense of community, and technology has enabled us to build a sense of community now more than ever. And I've always been a robot dog So here they are those little robot dogs running around, scary stuff, but I think that apart from the robot dogs, you know, technology has always been a tool. And it just comes down to how we use that to you know and as human beings we manage creativity, we, we kind of can curate the experience. So, we can use these tools together here today, we can use these tools to come in with our friends we can use these tools to share content, whether it is music short films, written text, and it's just really going to come down to how we use those tools and as creators I don't think that we necessarily have to be afraid of artificial intelligence taking our jobs away you know people are concerned okay if I have artificial intelligence tool that can create music does that mean that I no longer have a role as a music producer, but as he will tell you and as you know well you know if you have ever used sequencer or use a drum machine, you know you, you've engaged in some aspects of artificial intelligence, but exactly yeah and but at the same time, you know, as a human being as a curator it really comes down to how do you use that to, to create how do you use that to to to add a human emotion to that is lasting and can touch. Everybody in this room and everybody me on that as well.
Someone: Chung when, when you first your album in 1976 had one of the most iconic album covers Tony I can remember, but it was quite dystopian right i mean the least the way that I interpreted it it was felt quite big brother esque as your attitude to technology evolved over time have you become more usually in all music styles you have always two sides of the coin. One is the hedonist side where you want to party and Tim the decent sunrise and getting excited and the other one is also the fact that any kind of music movements, see the beauty of jazz or folk song rock punk and electronic music, but also have their social side, and the idea that I've been always an activist in environment, and also in a tolerance and with these kind of topics. I think music can carry this and and not by being big speeches on stage but just through sharing convictions and ideas and oxygen was actually and 40 quite premonitory with this iconic cover with this the the earth.
Someone: And the skull behind me. Under the, the inside the, the earth could be a logo for great Athan bag. Today, you know. So, actually, of course, electronic music, like any other things that we have also some, some connections to share, like any, any other artists and how for you both. What do you think are the most important tools today I mean, little plug for your app again Ilan is in the App Store it's a super interesting concept right that there's going to be this eternal stream of music and it's never going to be the same again, it's always going to evolve and it's always going to be different, but for you guys as as creators and you know having been in the industry for quite, quite a while you know one of the most important tools and how I think can we give guidance to people as to how they can best use them, how can they be more optimistic around the stuff that we're using, creating with. I think the most important tool right now is to be able to think for yourself.
Someone: Because now more than ever we have access to so much content. And people, they don't know what to listen to any radio they don't want to listen a good thing that amount of content before. I mean it's a great thing. But at the same time you have to you as a human being, again you have to be able to to empower in a curator decide what it is that you like, as opposed to having to constantly be told, whether on social media, whether by by influences or whether by somebody that's on the radio whether somebody like me, you know, you need to be able to decide for yourself what it is that you like when it comes to music or when it comes to what you want to watch on TV or what it is you want to watch on YouTube etc etc and that that ability to think critically and to make decisions is probably the best skill that we can empower you know into anybody that's here in this room or into young people that are coming up anybody that's working in a creative space anyway that consumes content. So on both sides of the equation is as a, as a creator, it's important to understand how you want to communicate the message that you have inside how to, how to find and use your own voice. And as a consumers, it's important to understand what it is you like and what it is you want to enjoy, and how we can bridge the gap between those between those two ideas. You mentioned earlier on when we were talking out there that you said one of the most important things that we can give as a gift to the youth is critical thinking, 100%, is that because of in Trinidad, where you're from, is that something that you're brought up with something that you've intrinsically understood from your family, or is it something you've learned as a musician, both i think i think that I was raised specifically that way but I think that also as a musician I've, you know, if you become what people like the qualities maker.
Someone: Or if you become what people like to call a rule breaker. You have to have, you have to implement this integral critical thought because you have to kind of figure Well, you know, maybe some maybe everybody's not going to like this, but it's going to, and it's going to challenge some people is going to confuse some people but at the same time it's going to fascinate so many more and more importantly it's going to open it open doors for other people who may have been sitting on the sidelines thinking, Man, you know, I wanted to do what that guy was doing but I was always afraid of what this, the of how the status quo would react. Right. And if you can, if you can find ways to intelligently challenge the status quo. Then you can inspire a whole lot of people to kind of do what they what they were what they were really feeling inside, you know, and in a sense you know Sharma was able to do that, decades ago, when he was able to introduce electronic music to a much larger much wider audience by saying hey you know like I can either go there. And, you know, do the regular stuff and play, you know, play keys and find a guy who plays drums and finally the guy who plays guitar and form a band, or I can go the route of doing this, you know, at the time, we're dealing with electronic music and synthesizers and so on. And that has since become, you know, that's that's the factor, you know like, the, what, what the guy did, you know, lay the groundwork for what has eventually become EDM, which was able to allow me to have a career, but it was also a, you know, and then once I had that career I was able to use my platform to give context to Caribbean music right so now you have artists and musicians and producers who are coming onto the Caribbean who are doing stuff that would have been deemed outside of the box but it's not outside of the box is just, they're just do anything. You know, so, as a, as a creator, you have to be able to employ that type of critical thought to kind of like look and see and say okay you know like maybe sometimes I am going to toe the line, but at some point after activate with this evil Hey, this is what I want to do. And you're going to find people who are going to align with your ideology. So a lot of the talk, I think we've heard in the in web summit this week is being very much about the long term thinking and playing the long game and not doing for the short wins and not just relying on, you know, short term data and this notion that Facebook had of moving fast and breaking things. I mean, we both played in a long game right i mean in where you've come from and Trinidad in and bring into the world and we were talking earlier on about the importance of curation, and how important it is to have curators john in the, in your life who have been, you know, those important curators for you that you've helped you get to the level that you've been at I Know Your father was a film composer who I didn't know he composed Lawrence of Arabia which. Yeah, pretty cool I actually yeah for on the personal matter I mean, my parents mean my my father. I have very few contact with my father so he didn't have that much importance in my, because at the beginning of electronic music pioneering a new Rob had no models be behind a new one to copy to be inspired by. So my inspiration went from Martin movies such as 2001 or from, from people I mean, thinking about music in terms of different structures such as my babies for instance was a my, my really my idol. And, but you know I would like to tell you something about what you just said, I mean Jillionaire is a perfect example of what you can.
Someone: Technology Hello lol us today to be universal you can dig in the unit being universal is digging in your own garden.
Someone: Whether you can be in Trinidad you can be in France can be in China, and then finding the common elements on an emotional level, to be able to be felt by everybody in the world. And you can do that through your own art, writing a poem writing a piece of music, but now with technology you can actually produce your own music or your own movies, somewhere in the world, and being heard everywhere. And that's something that, of course, we share the relationship between the consumer, the audience, and the Creator. And I think that the notion of duration is also based from the fact as an artist I think my idea about an artist is YYUU Go on, is a mixture of hope, frustration, and curiosity frustration that every album you do is not enough and you hope that next time it will be better, and being curious being able to steal from everywhere, to try to be inspired and going on.
Someone: There's a fantastic interview and you probably know it from David Bowie I'm going to read it out so it's 1999 David Bowie's interview by British journalist called Jeremy Paxman of news night and he Jeremy was pushing, David.
Someone: The idea that the internet was just a device, it was just to basically send some information, and David said, No, it's not. It's an alien life form. And he's, he's in Ziggy Stardust mode. But what he talks about with art happening when the work and the audience, come together and the audience adds to that gray space in the middle. And this is 1999 David said the 21st century is going to be about that gray space. And I think with, with the work that you've been doing it is about that gray space right where you leave it up to the general public to do something with it. I mean, I think you've had the largest concert ever three and 3.7 million people in Moscow.
Someone: In an experience that must be absolutely breathtaking to see. I was going through and looking at venues Knebworth with Oasis hundred and 25,000 people Wembley Stadium 90,000 people to imagine 3.7 million people live in the hall of Moscow, would be absolutely insane and I think what what you were doing back then and what you're doing again now is, is playing with that gray space right where you allow people to come together and do something. Yeah, it's going to be the gray space in the future. Okay, just, and then I leave, Jim Jillionaire to to answer to that, just a quick comment. I think gray is my favorite color, because it's between black and white, and and it's where we are, where our day to day life is, is about Greg, this big mixture of being dark and sunny is what I, I, I tried to express in my music and I think that everybody is every artist is trying to get them the gray area of the future. The future is necessarily great, because we don't, we don't know if we are going to be to go into kind of dystopian future, and, and, and, or, more a brighter future and as Jillionaire were saying, I mean, we don't know. I mean technology is neutral is entirely depending on the way we are going to use it. And of course, AI is very frightening for lots of people in the web summit everybody's talking about AI, but actually AI is neutral and but he's offering for us as artists or creators, everybody, and a huge gray field. And it's, it's up to us to make it to be optimistic vice aversion or being anxious about about this, but I think that there is no reason not to be so excited by the huge possibility of the fact that maybe robots in 10 years from now, will cry or will have nostalgia will be able to have feelings, we should not be aware of that is fantastic.
Someone: Well, I'm not sure about that. Yeah, I know.
Someone: You know it because human beings, generation after generation. I mean, they always say, I mean yesterday was better and tomorrow is going to be worse. And I think it's because it's our human DNA that maybe because we are, we know that at one moment we not going to be part of that future. That makes us think that the future is necessarily dark. Not necessarily. I'm not sure that it's dark. But I think about ocean the robots could have feelings I think is is scary I think. But, Christopher What about you, so where we, where's the gray area of Hugh and where's the gray area gonna be, I think, I think the great thing about the gray area is that more of us now have access to that space, and technology has allowed so many more people access to content to the ability to participate and to me that is, that is where the gray realized in that.
Someone: There's, there's a blurring of the lines between the creator and the consumer. And those lines will continue to bleed even further. And through technology, we have allowed people to access music through streaming media services we have allowed people to access video content through sites like YouTube and and Netflix and Amazon and so on and we continue to make content, even easier, easily available to a larger number of people, and the more technology we deploy around it will is the more people get to participate in that gray space, it's more people get to create content. The more people get to communicate the more people get to participate. And, you know, I have my own reservations about VR and xR and so on but in the, in the coming years is also going to be a whole new space where people can participate so now think about those 3.7 million people that were in Moscow, you could you could do that same concert in the comfort of your own home. And technically 10 times that 10 times that number of people can participate within a within a virtual space, however you feel about that. It's still a fascinating thing it's it's still an exciting prospect, you know, and to be able to get to share your ideas and your gift with with that many people is just is mind blowing.
Someone: You know I'm, I'm working at the moment on the concept of a virtual studio where I can be in Paris in my virtual studio I can invite Jillionaire being in Trinidad and joining. I mean, I was going to say physically but virtually physically at the same virtual space, doing music together. He will stay at home, I will set my home. And then this this moment, should be a great moment for us on the creative point of view, this also on top of it could be a performance that we could share with the entire world, staying at homes. I don't say that the ultimate goals in life is to stay at home and enjoying life because great also to be shoulder against shoulder, and being in a festival and, but it's a fantastic way of exploring a different way of creating. And this is something we could do today. That's quite good I think I read that you said that you you spend more time with machines and they do with humans, or even though you're happier spending time with machines than humans. Yeah, but you know at the same time I feel like these guys have been spending their lives with elephants or dolphins, and they are creating accounts for Perret language with them. And I love to think that I developed a kind of emotional relationship with machines so I'm ready to deal with robots, and I'm not afraid to bring on a robot dogs. What machines are you spending most your time with because when you first started out, it was cassettes, I think, tape. Yeah, I was 10, and now obviously it's your app, but what were How else are you spending time machines today. You know I was a kid saying, Well, why did you choose this big synthesizers would be much better with the violin because much better, much easier to carry with and to, to, to, to, to, yes to carry with you or everywhere, and now she's not here anymore but with a laptop, which is my, my, our instrument is smaller than the violin. And with this, you can create you can produce you can distribute your music from the top of the mountain of from the rest of the caffeine berries, and this is absolutely amazing.
Someone: Christopher for you. I think earlier on, you said that one of the problems with Spotify, and a lot of the streaming services with the shit floats to the top. Yeah, I think that was your quote.
Someone: Thank you for saying that in front of thousands. But again it comes back to implement in your own internal curator, and it comes back to tastemakers as well, it comes back to guys like DJI as Peterson, it comes back to guys like Zhang Michelle guys like myself guys like yourself as well and what you guys do let me transfer in terms of being able to, to, to kind of get people in the right direction. You know, decision making is become become harder than ever now you know, the thing about decision making is that we have a wealth of options, you know, people ask me all the time you like what do you listen to and it's challenging because sometimes you go on to Spotify and you have no, you have no idea what you want to listen to, you know, so if we, if we have tastemakers and we have recommendations if we, if we are able to use technological tools as well to build recommendation engines that can, I can say to say, you know, I was talking to john Selina saying, if you, if you sit with someone and you have a conversation with them. You can say, Hey, you know, based on the way you would you addressed, I can tell that you spent a lot of time in Tokyo, and maybe you might like to read this book by Haruki Murakami, you know, but the way the technology exists right now. You can say to somebody, hey based on all of these songs that you listen to on Spotify. This is what you should watch on Netflix, because the data while you're listening habits is stuck with industry Media Services any data about your viewing habits is stuck with within the, the, the Netflix is and a the Amazon Prime's and the two shall never see the light of day, nationally, meet each other and in person. You know, so we face a lot of challenges trying to figure out you know how to sift through the shit and find you know with where's the, where's the good stuff, you know, but at the same time that's kind of the beauty and the magic of exploring you know and it's one of one of those things that you know the the technologists will say is still broken, but that this, there's a significant beauty in the fact that it's so broken because we still have to explore, you know, we still have to go out there and find that new interest in documentary we still have to go there and find that new unexplored artists that that we kind of just stumble upon and now, and now we stuck on you know, and it's really up to the personal consumer to do themselves that justice of going out there and performing that exploration. A big part of what we did as Mitchell is and what I do in my own personal practice is being able to provide context. So, how do we provide context to a North American or European audience for Caribbean music or for Latin music or for African music, and then beyond that once they have been provided that context and once they have been exposed to that music. The onus is now on them to go out and explore that music and say you know like I never heard that song music before I never heard afrobeat before, I never heard reggaeton before, but now that I have. Let me go on to my Spotify let me go on to my Apple Music Let me check all these guys I mean, let me see, let me look at the music that is coming from the country that these guys went to or let me look at the music from the artists and his group of friends that these guys worked with. So, there are still ways to find curators and they may be conventional ways they may be unconventional ways, but it's really the onus is on everybody in this room to decide for themselves if they just want to kind of stick with the status quo and, and, and, you know, find yourself a drawing and shirt or if you want to kind of weights, you know, find ways and means, and analytical tools to wade through that and find the gems john as we're counting down to the end of the session, any closing remarks from you. What's your.
Someone: Would you leave people with no I think we have to just to to believe in the future and stop having this kind of that rather dystopian idea about that the future is necessarily dystopian, I think we need to be as I said, optimistic vice version, because the sky is the limit. More than ever. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
Someone: It's a very exciting time to be in Toronto.
Someone: Collision raisin the opportunity to travel. It brings a diversity of different talent into the room.
Someone: Partners in our customers are here, we have to be here.
Someone: Wow. Full House. Amazing. All right everyone here we are. The moment everyone's waiting for the winning announcement of pitch power by Siemens here web summit 2019 McMullen stage now joining me, will be to announce the winner will be Pedro Miranda, the CEO of Siemens Portugal, and one of the judging panelists Mada Getty from branch Come on over. Come on out.
Someone: All right, this year's competition was particularly tough of the thousands of startups here web summit 135 of them were selected to compete in pitch and from that 135 only three emerge victorious and pitched earlier today in the final. So I'd like to thank all the judges who are involved and of course all the startups who pitch their heart out.
Someone: Okay, so just to remind everyone, this is not a popularity contest, who had the best pitch or the one you like the most right. We actually had a pitch scorecard that all the judges had to use and they were ranking it based on product potential to disrupt competitive advantage. Team financials and the quality of pitch okay so this is what they rank out of 20, we added the scores together and that's what we came up with the finale and the winner of pitch 2019. So let's first take a look, you had and you have the web summit app, you're allowed to vote. So let's take a look at how the audience voted.
Someone: Alright so, Nutrix had 40% banjo Robinson at 31% and be right back at 29% alright so before we get into what did the judges vote on Mada, tell us a little bit about what did you think about you know when you're doing the deliberation, the other judges. What did you guys talk about, I think each of them was very good at something else. So, you know, the BeRightBack I actually think was the best, the most polished pitch. I think the banjo Robinson was the most emotional one, I actually decided to invest in her and convinced her to allow me to around I got so excited about the mission. And I think that the first one, Nutrix was the most, most potential to disrupt so that's what we were talking about in the back and was judging that right there, fairly early stage startups. What do you think, what kind of popped out at you during their pitch for other startups to remember that you thought were really good and you know, gave them a lead over the other startups. I think they did a really good job talking about how they're each going to disrupt their own market. I think it was really interesting to see the technology behind Nutrix. It was really cool to see the mission behind banjo, and also the different model on BeRightBack. I love the way each of them kind of talked about what they're trying to do it but also very well about the market so both like how they're going to disrupt the mike and he was very clear what they're doing, how they're going to do it. It was a very clear path. Great. Okay, as you can see on the video screen here they are the three backstage wave to the cameras, who's the winner. Let's hear from you. Who's the winner. Cheer out the name.
Someone: No.
Someone: How are you, you. Okay, you know what, Pedro, why don't you tell us, who is the winner. Nutrix gradually. Yes.
Someone: Wow.
Someone: There you go. There you go. Don't drop it.
Someone: Say, say a couple of words.
Someone: Thank you so much.
Someone: And I, I've been able to say thank you email all the languages I can speak so di Grassi grace Yes. It's an honor to be here. So thank you. I'm so happy. And I would like to say thank you to the judges, thank you to the public. It's really unbelievable to be here.
Someone: And I really really hope we will bring the change and disruption to the medicine, and that we will start monitoring all amazing things. And we will be able to improve the health of the patients, not only with the diabetes. Thank you so much. Thank you.
Someone: One more gift from payments, you're gonna be the next unicorn. The next unicorn. And you deserve it. Can I give it to Mada, which is already a unicorn itself. Thank you my friend I was a seaman yes I would have never got to her.
Someone: And I think both of them are really on a high scale. So congratulations. Thank you. All right, thank you. Thank you. Bye bye.
Someone: How's everybody having a good time.
Someone: So we're down to our final two speakers and about 25 minutes we're going to be joined on stage by the fantastic president of Portugal, but before then. We've got somebody pretty special. Over the past three years. Our next speakers actions against Google, Apple and Facebook, among others, have helped shape the future of technology, and in September of this year, she is bestowed with vast new powers and appointed to an unprecedented second term as the EU's competitions Commissioner, while also overseeing EU digital policy as executive vice president.
Someone: She's arguably one of the most influential women in technology today. Now armed with those vast new powers. She is here to tell us about the task that still lies ahead in conversation with Laurie Siegel, please give a huge web summit Welcome to Margrethe Vestager
Someone: businesses, the businesses who pay their taxes. The real guarantee of an innovative future comes from keeping markets, open so that anyone big smaller can compete to produce the very best ideas, because, obviously, this is a global matter. This is not about Apple, this is not about Android. This is about Google behavior for everyone to participate in paying their fair share, not more, not less, a behavior that's illegal for a dominant company who will keep focusing keep, analyzing, Keep, keeping an eye, so that technology will serve us, and not serve itself.
Someone: It's super exciting to be here with you, what an extraordinary time to have the role that you have someone I was, I was doing some research and someone said she will have more leverage than anyone else in the world, she's will be the most powerful regulator of big tech on the planet, and I know you've expanded your role now. How are you feeling about it, let's get let's do the emotions first like how does this feel.
Someone: Well, I would have felt alone if it wasn't for this because I you know they say that it, it takes a village to raise a child. I takes, I think that it takes a community like this actually to make tech serve humans, because this is what we're going to do. Well, it's certainly at a time when I feel like technology and humanity is clashing in a very interesting way.
Someone: You know, what would you say in this new role or the expanded roles your most important priority.
Someone: Well the first priority will always be humans that technology should serve us and that we need humans to understand what is going on to create what is going on and to do that as a community, the challenges that we have to make the tech community, in itself, the user community, much more diverse and, and also to reflect the world that we want to live in. Because if you look at the data we have, but also the data that we're missing, to make that available to have the necessary skills and sufficient investment. But at the bottom line of all of this is that we may have new technology, but we do not have new values, dignity, integrity, humanity, equality, that's the same.
Someone: You've been known to take on the big tech companies Paddy was just talking about some of those Apple, Amazon, Google, do you think, I mean, have you witnessed them change, do you think they're actually changing their behavior, and if not, what will will it be more fines or do you think I know back in the US you have presidential candidates talking about breaking them up, what do you think will actually make them change.
Someone: Well, first of all, they're different. They're different in their approach.
Someone: They're different in their approach to law enforcement. They're also different when they partner up, because we do that as well.
Someone: For instance, when it comes to fighting illegal content. But if I've seen change. It is basically to have even bigger ambitions.
Someone: If you look at new Google services being launched. If you look at the Facebook Libra plans. If you look at the apple streaming services. You see, still bigger ambitions. And this also shows me that we have reached a phase where competition law enforcement can only do part of the job. We need to find the right level of democracy framing tech and say, This is how you should serve us.
Someone: I mean let's, let's talk about Facebook right a lot of controversy over there cryptocurrency a lot of controversy over Libra should it be allowed to proceed given Facebook's history and handling privacy.
Someone: Well, first and foremost, we're trying to figure out what it is. And we can do that. we can look at it, even though it doesn't really exist yet. But this is not just for me as Commissioner for competition. This is for the entire commission, because we have questions, not only about tying of the Facebook product and the payment product, and the dominance of Facebook, but colleagues of mine, they are asking questions about money laundering terrorist financing financial stability, you know, all the things that may come when you create a currency that is not under the control of authority. I mean you're, you go to Silicon Valley and I've been covering tech for very long time you go to Silicon Valley, you are actually feared and Silicon Valley I mean there's a total filter bubble in, in tech sometimes where you hear the US government, say a lot of things us here, the FTC put these fines out there, the DOJ but, but I think there's really a fear that you'll come in and make real changes. Do you think that us regulators are afraid to really punish technology companies I mean there's a really interesting contrast between Europe and America.
Someone: That may have been that what I sense is a very renewed. Not only interest, but also engagements by US authorities to start asking questions to start engaging to start investigating to say, well, maybe, maybe there's an enforced enforcer role for us here as well. And that is very very welcome.
Someone: You know, there's this ongoing debate. You at Facebook going back to Facebook about political ads. I'm sure you guys are speaking a lot about this Twitter has drawn a hard line on making the decision to ban them jack Dorsey said he won't allow political ads on the platform Mark Zuckerberg says despite the fact that they could be spreading lies that it shouldn't be up to the tech companies to judge, what's true essentially it's not their responsibility. I know you guys are thinking oh you're thinking a lot about this type of thing. Who do you think is right.
Someone: Well, I think we have discussed in depth at length in the real world. What we want to accept, and what we will not accept. I simply do not understand why that is not the same thing in the digital world, because this is something that we have discussed. And that has been back and forth and it has taken us ages, and we say, Well, this is the framework for political advertising. This is the framework for our democratic debates. Why that should be any different in a digital world. I don't understand. And the second thing is that maybe we should do even more because the risk is that we complete the undermine our democracy. Democracy is supposed to take place in the open, where a political ads can be fact checked contradicted different opinions can be offered, it can be supported. But if it's only in your face. It's only between you and Facebook.
Someone: And then make retargeting of who you are. That's not democracy anymore. That is just privatized de facto manipulation of, of who you're going to vote for a democracy is supposed to take place in the open. So what I mean, since people listen to you and Silicon Valley what would be your message to Mark Zuckerberg.
Someone: Well, I of course listen very, very closely. When max Takhar Berg gives evidence in the hearings in the US democracy is senator conquests committees.
Someone: What, what is inspiring is not just what you say, it's also what you do.
Someone: He's an amazing creator of an amazing company. And if he himself, put action behind his words, we would see change rapidly, and that would be very welcome. Know what kind of action.
Someone: When you see other companies they say, as you mentioned, Twitter, we will not have political advertising that of course is not the end of that story because you may still have bots and throttle the farms and all of that. But it said important step forward, when the company shows, but these are our values, this is what we believe in. We are not just a neutral sort of stream of whatever comes here, we have values here. And I'm not the CEO of Facebook I'm not to judge, but I think the time has come, where they should also put action behind their words, part of your new role will be setting the agenda for regulations regarding artificial intelligence and we are most certainly heading towards a future where bias AI could have a good, certainly had detrimental implications for humanity, how, how will you see your role to regulate that what kind of regulations do you see, putting into place around that.
Someone: Well, it's very tricky.
Someone: So the first thing that will do is, of course, to listen very very careful carefully to stakeholders everywhere, but will also try to listen fast.
Someone: Because as we speaking AI is developing and that is wonderful because I see no limits as to how artificial intelligence can support what we want to do as humans.
Someone: Take climate change. I think we can be much more effective in fighting climate change. If we use artificial intelligence. I think we can spare people for, you know, all for stress for waiting time between having being examined by a doctor, and having the result of that examination, and maybe also more precise results in doing that. So I think the benefits of using artificial intelligence, they are, with no limits.
Someone: But we need to get in, in control of sort of the cornerstones so that we can trust it.
Someone: That it has human oversight. And very importantly, that it doesn't have bias.
Someone: Because if we accept bias and we basically just take the world we have right now. And, and we set it in stone.
Someone: You know I was recently speaking to someone who runs the Center for humane technology and he was talking about the AI recommendation models that are being built by Google and Facebook and Twitter and he was saying, you know, Laurie, these companies know more about us than our doctors and our lawyers are priests confessionals combined. And he says, which means he thinks they should be treated as fiduciary you know they should be, if they're not acting in our best interest, then we should have class action lawsuits. And that's the way we should start protecting ourselves in the future so. Is that something you think about I mean are you considering any types of laws or regulations that would make platforms more accountable for what's on the, what's on their platform. This is part of my mission letter. The president the next has asked me to take charge of exactly this discussion and figure out if we will push for new legislation to make people more responsible.
Someone: But there are more ways to deal with what you're referring to. Because one thing is that we have. You could call it sort of digital citizens rights the GDPR, but that this is so the question of how much data can be collected about you. And we also need better protection and better tools to protect ourselves from leaving a trace everywhere we go.
Someone: Because otherwise I don't think that we're ready to be you know naked, without a gadget without our phones, without the things that we like, but maybe we would like to be much more able to choose what kind of trays we would leave behind. And that side of the equation will have to be part of the discussion as well. How can we be better protected from leaving that trays of data that allows companies to know so much more about any one of us that we might even realize ourselves. So how can we I mean what does that actually look like I think a lot of people are frustrated at this point I remember interviewing, Zuckerberg during Cambridge Analytica and it was unbelievable how little we knew about what was happening so you know you in this seat. What does, what does that look like.
Someone: Well, first of all, I myself. I'm very happy that I have digital rights, and my problem is that I find it very difficult to enforce them.
Someone: The only real result of me reading terms of conditions, is that I get myself distracted from wanting to read the article that wanted me to tap terms and conditions. So we need that to be understandable so they know what we're dealing with. And we need software and services that will enable us not to leave the same kind of trace at as we would otherwise do. But, you know, I'm kind of a liberal, I really hope that the market will also help us here, because it's not just for politicians to deal with this. It is in an interaction with the market that we can find solutions, because one of the main challenges in dealing with AI is of course that there is a risk that we will regulate for yesterday. And then it's worth nothing.
Someone: At what point do you think the big tech companies should be broken up I know you said that this is the last thing in the toolbox or this isn't what you're thinking of first but at what point would you advocate for companies like Facebook or Google to be broken up to different perspective. First, from a competition point of view, you would have to do something where breaking up the company was the only solution to the illegal behavior to the damage that you have, have provoked. And we don't have that kind of case right now. I will never exclude that that could happen but so far. We don't have a problem that big that breaking up a company would be the solution.
Someone: Second perspective is of course sort of the science in itself. But the problem in that debate is that the people advocating it don't have a model as to how to do this.
Someone: And if you know this story about the antique kind of creature. When you chopped out one head.
Someone: I think one, two or seven came up. So there is a risk that you do not solve the problem. You just have many more problems, and you don't have a way of at least trying to control it. So I am much more sort of in the line of thinking that you should say that when you become that big, you get a special responsibility. Because you are de facto the rule setter in the market that you own. And we could be much more precise about what that then entails. Because otherwise there's a risk that the many many many interesting companies. They have no chance of competing. And you were recently talking about your plans to act against companies dodging tax obligations and countries where their users live and you know they have lots of user data but they don't exactly make it clear how that data is monetized. And you said something that I thought was really interesting you said one of the things I've learned is that it is not us searching Google, it is Google searching you. What did you mean by that.
Someone: Well it's, if, if there is an imbalance between what you get. And, and what you pay, then very often, you're the product, it is you were being searched because all the data that you leave behind. They make you part of the product. So whenever you make a small query. Well that query is not just the window into the internet is also a window into you.
Someone: And part of the amazing technology that they hold is the technology to not only predict what you want, but also to not let you into it into making choices that you may otherwise not have made. And, you know, one of the reasons why I really love a good magic show is that this is labeled. You're going to be manipulated, because you know, this is a trick. There is a card somewhere in the sleeve there is something happening you know and you find that it is fun and you are amazed.
Someone: And if that was the case all the time that you know, this is, this is a prediction, we take all the data all the knowledge we have about you, then you would have a different relationship. But here, at least for me, I still have this sense of, this is the right answer. This is the truth. I am presented with a not a prediction about what I want to do next.
Someone: What do you think as we head into 2020, what do you think is the biggest threat facing technology.
Someone: If technology gets self consumes and not open to the many many many people who have great ideas in Europe, over the last 10 years has developed a vibrant dynamic startup community with a lot of also scale up potential. You see, small startup, you see the giant businesses you see how how there is an appetite to use digital technologies for all kinds of different things. If, if tech sort of gets something that is only embedded in giant companies that is beyond our democracies. Then I think we lose trust in technology and and part of my mission is that we built trust in technology, by making sure that we can reach for the potential. But we can also do something to control the dark sides.
Someone: Do you think that's where we're headed.
Someone: Well, I will do my best.
Someone: But, but with great teams and a lot of determination. I think that our democracies can find that kind of solutions Yes, and I have to ask this, because, I mean, he, he talks about a lot of people, but spoke about you recently President Donald Trump accused you of being the person who hates the United States more than anyone I have met. So just, I just want to give you the opportunity really quick.
Someone: What would be your response to the President of the United States. Well then he can only meet people that really loves the US.
Someone: Okay.
Someone: You know, so going off of that. We have Donald Trump saying you hate the US you've got Tim coaxing the judgment against Apple was total political crap. You're just like this person who ruffles feathers left and right. Some of the most powerful companies and people in the in the world. I just be curious like where does this come from where does this dr come from I know you grew up in a very religious family.
Someone: You just go up against everyone, or you ever faced.
Someone: But actually maybe the point was that my, my family is my both parents are a priest in the Danish church, but they were never that religious what they were, were they were open for contradiction.
Someone: And when I was very small. I read in, we only have a weekly paper. And my dad was active in local politics, and there was a very very angry piece in that paper saying that he was completely and everything was wrong and he should never and all of that. and I was devastated.
Someone: And my dad he was enthusiastic. This was exactly what he wanted to achieve that someone contradicted him. So I have been taught that saying what you're saying, doing what you find to be the right thing. When people contradict you and disagree with you. That is not a mistake on Arrow, or bad. This is the way the world is so you should be able to stand there and do what you find to be the right thing.
Someone: You know, in the time.
Someone: And the time I started covering startups, back in 2009 and a man was I an optimist right I remember covering companies when they were just coming up, and things got really complicated and I think there's a lot of, a lot of people are really wondering about this time are we going to come out of this and this tech good or bad. And so I'd be curious because I go back to what I said at the beginning of this conversation which is what a fascinating time to sit in the seat that you sit in. Are you an optimist, do you do you think we come out of this this big tech went back trust.
Someone: But if I'm an optimist. But this is because I think that it's, it's a moral obligation. Because pessimists. You know, they really never get anything done. Because it's worse tomorrow so why bother.
Someone: Okay.
Someone: Well, now we're at a time. So I think that's a good way to end. Thank you so much. Well, it was a pleasure being here with you. Thank you very, very much.
Someone: Thank you.
Someone: So here we are.
Someone: Before I introduce our final speaker.
Someone: I just want to ask you to give a couple of rounds of applause first to all our incredible speakers.
Someone: Secondly, to the more than 7000 staff and 2000 volunteers that have been involved in this production over the last two weeks.
Someone: And then, finally, to the city of Lisbon and the country of Portugal and all the people that have opened their doors. Thank you.
Someone: I'm finally, I'd like to welcome to the stage, the president of Portugal.
Someone: Thank you.
Someone: Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Paddy, first of all, he deserves another applause. He is the one he is the one, then thank you all. Thank you all participants startups spouses volunteers, volunteers, people coming from all over the world. 170 countries. It's amazing. 2000 16,000 17,018 2019. And within it. Lisbon, Portugal vKm city and country. A key center of the digital revolution of the tech revolution.
Someone: But at the same time, web summit had, in the sense anticipated, most of the key changes this tech revolution, with Stephen Hawkins, we discussed, science, technology, life, death, past, present, future with all go. We anticipated climate change and global warming, at the time were too many said there was not a single problem concerning climate change and global warming. They denied the denied reality. We anticipated reality with with terrorists. We spoke of multi-lateralism. At the time when too many just spoke of unilateralism. A protectionism of no dialogue of war, trade war currency war with Michelle Bonnie. This year, we spoke of Europe and the role of Europe in the global world, with a stronger Europe with a strong bridge with the United Kingdom.
Someone: With Margrethe Vestager.
Someone: We just address the problem of competition and the digital of the technology, technological change.
Someone: We are dressing far ahead.
Someone: All the many, many and key changes and challenges of the president of the future. We're doing it with privacy. We spoke of privacy this year. We spoke with no fear of manipulation, coming from both political powers and economic powers, because we do know unhappily that politics and law are far behind when addressing these challenges, because we need stronger international institutions.
Someone: We need stronger rules. We need a strong democracy. We're under civic culture, when nobody's left behind.
Someone: That's another key point.
Someone: Another key point. We must not leave anybody behind any region of the globe. Any country, any part of society, all the generations know.
Someone: We must have them together with us in this wave in 2016. I spoke of a silent revolution.
Someone: The Silent revolution no longer silent revolution, so noisy revolution. In the sense, it's an open minded, a clear and strong revolution.
Someone: And in this sense, Portugal has changed with web summit.
Someone: And the world is changing with web summit, because we have no fear of addressing all the issues. All of them democratically freely with people representing the whole world.
Someone: That was the past that will be the future that will be 2000 20,021 till 2020 I, at least, 11, at least, Elizabeth.
Someone: At least, at least.
Someone: Well, thank you very much. On behalf of all the Portuguese, of the, of the younger generations that are living as heroes, these tech revolution, these digital revolution, with new investments with new startups. With the new mentality. But with the whole country. The whole society, and those that come from abroad. All of us.
Someone: We must get one anticipating the key issues of the future. We do not fear the future. We are unstoppable. Nobody will stop us. Nobody, nobody Nobody. Thank you. Paddy. Thank you all. See you next year.
Someone: Thank you so much and good night. Thank you, Portugal. Thank you, Liz Vern
Someone: knows what they're doing on day one, but the faster you can learn the better off you'll be able to read, asking people to trust you show them why they don't have to trust you, as humanity is rooted in our curiosity. It's a daunting collection of transformative changes. Some may already think get Mada.
Someone: I want to believe that it can be game on
Someone: remind
Someone: everybody.