
Sunil Sharma: Who is our next guest? Well, he's the man who in 1985 started with $400,000 and co founded Blackstone, which today is the world's leading investment firm, and now manages over $500 billion. He's the CEO whose views are sought by heads of state around the world, including his own President Donald Trump. He's donated $188 million to Oxford University to fund the study of ethics in AI. He's a leader that simply lives by the motto, don't lose money. in conversation with Thorold Barker from The Wall Street Journal. Please welcome to the stage Blackstone's Stephen Schwarzman. 
Thorold Barker: Good afternoon, everybody. Steve, you set up Blackstone at the age of 38, which is a fairly ripe old age for this audience, who are probably expecting to have exited their second business by that age. You did, however, managed to create a business worth about $60 billion, I believe today and with assets under management of half a trillion. So a huge success. I wanted to start for this audience where you have a lot of tech entrepreneurs, with you sharing from your experience and from your challenges that you face setting up that business. What are the main lessons that you learned on what a successful entrepreneur is and how to build a company if you could just start by sharing that? 
Stephen Schwarzman: Yeah, sure. I wrote a book about this did that we just published called what it takes You can buy it on Amazon. But in terms of what it really takes to start something is first you have to have, I think, a really big idea, just doing what everybody else does a little bit better, is sort of easy, but it's not distinguishable, particularly the biggest successes come out of something that that's sort of a go big type idea. And it's just as easy to prosecute that, as it is something small. And if you don't do that, and you're stuck with something small, when something better comes along, you're stuck. So so you have to start out with something unusual. And then you have to have the attitude that you have to do basically what it takes to get it done. And not everybody is rooting for your success, and it's a very lonely path, being an entrepreneur, other than when you announce you're doing it. That's that's a big jolt. 
Thorold Barker: Once you've had your big idea, what does it take? I mean, what are the characteristics that you need to make it work? 
Stephen Schwarzman: Well, you've got to hire people. And and part of the issue there is that the best people are already somewhere else. And you have to make sure you're adequately funded. Because the value of hiring somebody who's terrific, even if they cost more, is, is much better than people who can't keep up. Most great companies aren't just one person. You know, no matter how good you are, you're good at a lot of things, but you're not good at other things. So finding a partner who's got the skills that you don't you know, whether that was
Thorold Barker: So tell us how that worked with you, you left Lehman Brothers, probably a good thing you got out of that at the time you were head of mergers and acquisitions, talk us through leaving a really big brand like that, and a really big job and starting out on your own, how that feels, how it feels to sit in your office waiting for the phone to ring, and how you kind of got through that?
Stephen Schwarzman: Well, part of part of becoming an entrepreneur is you have to be somewhat delusional. You have to believe that you've got something unique to bring. And in our case, I worked at Lehman Brothers of now blessed memory. And what happened when we left I left with the person who was the former chairman. I thought the world would do business with us just the way it used to. Who, evidently the world didn't agree. There was no group of m&a boutiques like there now are. We were the first one. I just assumed people would use us the way they did. In fact, they didn't. And so it was terrible sitting in an office with the phone not ringing. We started with $400,000. And we got down to about 180,000 before we had our first 
Thorold Barker: What was the moment where you realized you'd actually made it work? Was there a particular moment? 
Stephen Schwarzman: We got hired on what was a very big deal. That that was very difficult to do. That's also what happens as an entrepreneur, you tend to get assignments nobody else wants, and they'll give it to you because they think it's half hopeless themselves. And if you're clever, you can make it happen. We happen to represent a company that was buying another company called sea land containers. It was the first container shipping business and, you know, we figured out a way to do it and that put us on the map.
Thorold Barker: And then people started coming. So you've seen a lot of economic cycles in your time at Blackstone, you are your seller or buyer at the moment, and you've got people in this audience who are, you know, trying to build companies deciding whether to go for it, you know, a US seller or your buyer right now? 
Stephen Schwarzman: Well, depends what we own. You know, we're
Thorold Barker: Net, net, I mean, are you trying to get less exposed or more exposed?
Stephen Schwarzman: Well, we don't look at it that way. Okay. We look at wonderful things. And if we can create a wonderful investment we'll buy it. If we've bought something, developed it, we then sell it. And so that process of selling always goes on and this is a good time to sell and money is very cheap. And people want to buy things. And so we've been a big seller. But we've also been a big buyer.
Thorold Barker: That sounds like more of a seller by the sound of it.
Stephen Schwarzman: Well, it's more of a seller in concept. But what happens is because we operate as the biggest firm in the world, doing alternative investing, real estate, private equity, those types of things, what happens is when something comes along, that's terrific. It happens to be very big, we bought a company called definitive was $20 billion. You can put a lot of money into an investment like that. And now we have an agreement to sell it at three times profit in the year that's worth doing, as they say.
Thorold Barker: And what about technology? We again have a lot of tech people here. It's not an area that you've invested in a lot. Is it interesting right now we've obviously seen valuations come off a lot has that made it at all interesting for a firm like yours?
Stephen Schwarzman: Yes, I think because we own so many different types of things. One thing we've learned is that technology is central to everything. And you're either going to be a disrupter or you're going to have your business model disrupted. And so we're putting more and more money into technology, we're in the process of buying a building a growth, equity business, we're going into, in a very big way. Health care and, and developing new drugs. Because we think that's important, and the technology permits that and you're gonna have all kinds of developments with AI.
Thorold Barker: And what about the consumer facing businesses? I'm sure a lot of people are involved in consumer facing business. We've seen those struggle a lot the Uber's that we work with this world, do you think that that just all got a bit carried away and that there's there's more sort of downside and We work in particular, you're a big real estate investor. I mean, do you have any sort of insights on that situation?
Stephen Schwarzman: Well, we're the biggest real estate investor in the world and the biggest buyer on an annual basis. So we we obviously have views. And and, you know, I'm not an expert on we work. But But we all looked at that and basically said, those kinds of valuations, that didn't make any sense. And the good news is not necessarily for we works, but the good news for the system is that it's self corrective. And when when, when that company tried to go out into the public markets, the public wouldn't have anything to do with it. Overall, that these kinds of cycles in technology happened and everybody who's been in that business recognize it in the late 90s to till you know, 2001 about 99 of that every 100 tech startups when busted, I mean tech literally collapsed. And people forget that in the current environment. But But this environment is much sounder you feel. And you know, there's so much money looking to go into tech tech is so transformative. so impactful globally, that I think all that's going to happen is, whatever the latest marks were, will, in many cases be taken down. But the answer to that is so what, you know,
Thorold Barker: So when you're, if you're going to do more growth, capital and other things, when you look at an entrepreneur and you look at what you're looking for in that person, the leadership, the culture of the company, how do you set a culture and what is this culture you're looking for Wright and you can kind of lace that back to what you did at Blackstone and how you thought about that? 
Stephen Schwarzman: Yeah, well, we have a culture that It's completely transparent. It's got a bias to, you know, very smart people. Teamwork, meritocracy, high integrity. I know these sound like sort of things everybody should believe in. We believe in them, we do them. We believe in very hard work. And whenever we see a business that's got a really good model, with that kind of culture, with somebody in charge, who's really driving for excellence.
Thorold Barker: So that individual matters and talking of individuals. Just want to switch to the macro quickly. You are somebody who knows one deal maker and leader pretty well. President Trump. Can you give a sense to the people in this room, having known him a long time what kind of leader he is?
Stephen Schwarzman: Well, geez, that's a tough one, right? Because everybody's got their own views 
Thorold Barker: No sure but I think I think it's important We will hear in the media, a different viewpoint that comes through, but you are somebody who actually interacts regularly with him and be useful. I think just to give people a sense of how you view his leadership skills is still making skills as somebody. I mean, as you've written a book about, you know, does he have what it takes to do this from a leadership perspective? 
Stephen Schwarzman: Well, he certainly had what it took to get elected. Yeah, and we've got another election coming up. I interface with him principally around economic types of things, and in particular on trade. And, and the theory of the case on trade is that it should be fair trade. In other words, you know, the same kind of barriers that one country has to another should be more or less equal. And right now, we've had a situation with China where from the US perspective, in terms of tariffs, and taxes, it costs about three times as much on balance for US company to sell into China, as it does for a Chinese company to sell to the United States. It's it's dramatically unbalanced and this whole, you know, trade issue that's been going on is really to just try and get this closer. And I think the good news is that the two countries appear to be in a much more positive position now in terms of making something work that'll diffuse some of the trade tension.
Thorold Barker: And you know, the Chinese pretty well, you know Xi. so you think they'll do a deal and it'll be a deal that works out for the US at this point?
Stephen Schwarzman: I think that's, that's appears to be the current state of play, I think for the good of the world. diffusing these tensions is an important thing, because almost every part of the world is slowing. And so I think there's a recognition that there needs to be a rebalancing and, and something positive, should come out of it.
Thorold Barker: On politics, it's pretty fragmented around the world in the UK, where I'm from, we have certain issues you might be aware of the same in the US. Some of the Democratic contenders are looking at pretty sweeping changes to the tax regime to combat inequality. Do you think you know as a billionaire yourself that rich Americans are going to need to pay more tax and that's a sensible way to go at some point.
Stephen Schwarzman: Well we have our country's going through a very difficult patch where we have at least 25% if not higher, of people without savings who have what I would call income insufficiency, they really have a difficult time. And that's going to have to be addressed. There are a lot of different ways to address it. I think that one way is, is to increase the minimum wage, right in the United States, you could do that. Depending upon, you know, what it costs to live in different areas to $15 would be a huge increase. And that hits our bottom 15% of the people, but it actually affects more, because the people who are paid less than $15 
Thorold Barker: So do you think that has to come with a change? I mean, obviously, on the Democratic side, there's quite a big push for this. Do you expect that to lead to a change?
Stephen Schwarzman: I think as we Pinto, I think it should, probably will, that will affect like 35% of our population, and and you have to start there. Because from a policy perspective, that you should want people to work to get money, as opposed to just have a have a transfer. And I also think that part of what's happened in the United States is our educational levels have gone way down from when I was in school when I was in school, public schools, you know, we were one of the top two or three in the world, US has now fallen to somewhere between 25 and 30. with math in the 30s, for sure, whether it's 33 or 34. So we have to reform our education system, because that's the way people can get better jobs. So I'm not one way to do that. Is is to have teachers, I believe, be the only occupation in the United States. That doesn't pay taxes. And what that would get is it get much more many more people wanting to be teachers. But but it also changes the status of being a teacher. If you're singled out as a special class and a whole country, then that's a way I have all kinds of other things we could do to increase people's income.
Thorold Barker: So final thing, you have a huge platform, you have many businesses around the world, one of the big issues today is around sustainability. With that platform, what do you hope to have as an impact? You know, when you look at sustainability and issues, what are the the one or two things that you'd really want to change with that?
Stephen Schwarzman: Well, we're in a continual mode of investing in sustainability, is surprisingly, it's actually great business is so for example, We own a lot of assets, we've cut our electric bills, by just doing a variety of things by around 15%. That's, that's a very, you know, sort of good things to do. We're using solar, you know, on roofs of buildings. So for example, in New York, just we alone have doubled the use of solar power in New York City, just Blackstone. And so we, we approach sustainable sustainability as things that's good for the environment. But it's also good for
Thorold Barker: You don't have to compromise your profitability in order to do this.
Stephen Schwarzman: No, in fact, we're increasing our profitability and and I think that's a lesson for other people in terms of the way to position sustainability. A good thing all around.
Thorold Barker: Good. Steve, we're out of time. Thank you very much indeed feel thoughts and please give it up Steve Schwarzman. Thank you. 
Stephen Schwarzman: Thank you.