
Casey Lau: Good evening, everyone. I'm delighted to welcome you to the opening night of Web Summit, the largest gathering of entrepreneurs in the world. 
Casey Lau: My name is Casey Lau and I'm the co host of RISE. 
Sunil Sharma: And I'm Sunil Sharma, managing Managing Director at Techstars in Toronto, and I'm also the co host of Collision. We have an incredible lineup in store for you here at the opening night of Web Summit. You're going to hear from whistleblower Edward Snowden live from Russia to talk about his life and his decision to bring down the mass surveillance system that he helped build. We'll then have my fellow Canadian Michelle Zatlyn, the co founder of Cloudflare and Daniela Braga, the founder and CEO of DefinedCrowd to speak. Next, Huawei President Guo Ping will be outlining his vision for the Chinese tech giant's future. Finally, Jaden Smith from Just water will be here on an all star panel to talk about why water is now attracting the next generation of high profile entrepreneurs. 
Casey Lau: But before we bring those stars on stage, we have picked a selection of the most exciting startups attending Web Summit for you to have an advanced preview of throughout this evening. So let's get our first startup out. It's a very fitting that our first speaker is from Portugal. Luisa is a founder and VP of Engineering at Fyde, a Silicon Valley based beyond perimeter security startup with an engineering team based in Porto, Portugal. Please give a huge welcome to our first breakout speaker Luisa Lima. 
Luisa Lima: How many of you have checked your company email from your personal phone? Perhaps from the hotel Wi Fi? Or from a conference that you might be sitting at at the moment? Did you realize that it could be putting your company at risk? Companies are under attack today more than ever, there are 6 million records breached every single day. Each of these attacks cost on average, 3 million euros can take more than 200 days to get detected. And actually 25% of these attacks are not caused by external attackers, but rather by our very own internal employees. 
Luisa Lima: It seems that secure access is broken. How did we get here? Well, what used to happen only at the office and our employees were there sitting together with a company servers. But nowadays, we have so the trust model of trust was based on the perimeter and access was based on whether you are inside or outside of it. And for a while this worked to block cyber attackers. But nowadays, we have a new work model. We work remotely from home from coffee shops, and we have our company data in the cloud. To add to this change, the concept of network was extended to outside of the office perimeter using VPN, which supposedly works well sort of, in reality, let's face it, VPNs are slow, not reliable, and everyone hates them. And is it secure? Well, no, it's just based on all the assumptions with VPNs, an attacker only needs to compromise one device to access the entire company network. Fyde removes the old assumptions and builds a new system by solving concept of zero trust, which means that every person and every device are not trusted, whether they are inside or outside of the company network perimeter. Fyde continuously any of the backgrounds verifies whether you are the right person with the right device, and with the right permissions. It is fast and reliable, unlike those VPNs. And what about from the company perspective? Well, are you worried about privacy compliance or GDPR? We've got you covered. Does it really make sense to rely on licensed technologies to protect your company, just stop doing that. Get rid of your VPN today and upgrade to easy and secure access. Thanks, and enjoy the Web Summit.
Sunil Sharma: Next up we have Veronika Riederle, the founder and CEO of Demodesk. a startup that is building the first intelligent online meeting tool for inside sales and customer service teams. Veronika founded Demodesk with the vision to enable anyone to have a great customer conversation using a new kind of web conferencing technology. Now Demodesk just raised a seed round of $2.3 million. There are co located between Munich and San Francisco. So please put your hands together for Veronika from Demodesk.
Veronika Riederle: Good evening Web Summit. I'm Veronika co founder and CEO of Demodesk. We are building the first intelligent online meeting tool for inside sales and customer service professionals with the vision to enable anyone to have a great customer conversation. 
Veronika Riederle: Inside sales that is sales being done remotely via email, phone and web conferencing towards rather than meeting face to face is a huge and rapidly growing field.
Veronika Riederle: And sales is hard.
Veronika Riederle: Mastering the Art of sales requires a unique combination of natural talent, years of experience and strong product expertise. So why are the web conferencing tools that are being used today in inside sales, still purely functional? They hardly offer anything besides plain vanilla video calling and local desktop sharing. We changed that. Having problem with the clickers here.
Veronika Riederle: Okay.
Veronika Riederle: We've redefined web conferencing using a unique approach to screen sharing existing tools record your presenters local desktop screen, we set up a virtual display instead, then anyone can access that just clicking a link. There no downloads required and control can instantly be shared with anyone. By using a virtual display, we can automatically load the right presentation content at the meeting start. show real time conversational guidance on the presenters side without the customers seeing it and have significantly more data to analyze than existing tools. We are building the first intelligent online meeting tool for customer facing conversations. Today Demodesk is being used for over 100 fast growing international companies. We help our customers increase close rates, automate the entire workflow from scheduling over preparation to CRM, logging, and schedule team by integrating sales coaching and onboarding right into the meeting flow. We've been part of Y Combinator earlier this year and just raised our seed round. Now we're looking for great people to join the team and customers that want to work with us. Thank you.
Casey Lau: Our next company is another Portuguese startup from Porto called Barkyn They are subscription service for dogs. Barkyn delivers all products and services a pet needs online and offline. With a subscription plan. Today we will hear from Portuguese founder Andre Jordao out let them make him feel home on stage.
Andre Jordao: Okay, how many of you bought something online this year? I'm sure that almost none of the packages as a personal message inside and why? I'm Andre, founder of Barkyn. a subscription service delivering happiness to pets with food and health combined. So you pay us 40 euro per month, and you'll receive a box with customized food for your dog. Plus a dedicated vet a dedicated doctor on our platform. We've impacted more than 20 26,000 customers in Spain, Italy and Portugal and each month At least 68% of our revenues come from repeated customers. But Barkyn is so much more than a business. It's part of our customers lives. We've ignited local communities in 14 European cities, where our customers gather to socialize every week. We make a difference by being there with communities with a personal message from your vets, and a specific recipe for your dog. And now, we taking you to a whole new level.
Andre Jordao: Close, we'll be closer for customers and what's closer they're going into their homes will be there with a smart box connected to an app that knows exactly when your dog needs a full refill, or just the right advice.
Someone: We present to you the magic box, a smart box connected to an app that assures your dog's happiness and your peace of mind. The magic box is an elegant and durable container for your dog. That helps you save time. Plus improve your dog's health. It learns how you feed your dog, predicting the exact date and time you'll need to read though. No more clicks or checkouts. Food tailored to your dog will arrive at your doorstep automatically. Using sophisticated AI. The Magic Box also gives you advice on your dog's diet and shares personalized tips for a healthier and happier life. And all of this is controlled by you through our intuitive app. In a nutshell, true happiness in a box. Barkyn, let the
Andre Jordao: Magic begin. because ecommerce is becoming super cool and transactional. We just speaking to robots at Barkyn we want to bring the human connection back to e commerce or the market we live with an experience made just for you. Thank you. 
Sunil Sharma: Thank you, Andre. So next up, we have Casafari. Now they track the entire real estate market by aggregating and matching properties from different sources. The platform is now used by 7000 real estate agents, and in two years has managed to increase its annual income by more than 600%. So please put your hands together for Casafari founder, Nils Henning.
Nils Henning: Hello, everyone. Thank you for having me here tonight and rivers representing Casafari and one of three co founders and I'm going to show you what we do. Our mission is we bring transparency to the real estate industry is one of the most opaque and chaotic industries in the world. And we do this by building the biggest and cleanest real estate database in the world. Why the real estate industry is the biggest industry in the world. It's a $280 trillion industry. That means it's three and a half Fold the global GDP. And unfortunately, we see next slide. It still stayed in analog times. So they are agencies around their players around his still work in a pen and paper style. They even don't have a computer and we talked about changing this. Why? Because it causes multiple problems. Number one, you have fragmentation in the market. You might have more than 15 different marketplaces. So if you think about Spain that might be the list of four to Casa pieces to come happy to say Curran the hero green occurs me to live in so on. So if you want to find property, it's a pain 50% of the inventory is not advertised anywhere, and the complete market information doesn't exist. Chaos. 80% of properties are listed with several agencies. So no exclusivity in the market. 20% of what we see has more than one price. So watch out very, very clear before you buy a property, and classifieds advertise multiple types of properties seen EDP Lister, we found one property listed more than 50 times. The solution is machine learning and data collection and duplication. So looks very clear what you know from Skyscanner into Vertoe. This is what we build with Casafari how successful we are in this. So we started in the beginning of 2018 on the Portuguese market, we tracked already more than 13 million properties and we grow strong further in building a marketplace. Connecting All players from brokers to agents, to buyers, agents, investors, banks, insurance companies and so on. What speaks for us we have more than 500 million track data points right now a team of more than 70 people for more than 20 countries. And we have Lakestar and round hill capital round hill ventures on board of Casafari. Thank you everyone. Have a great show.
Casey Lau: Alright, our next company is a Dublin based startup called Evervault founded by 19 year old Shane Curran. Evervault is a cloud based secure processing product and aim to take privacy away from compliance and turn it into product. Let's welcome to the stage Evervault.
Shane Curran: I'd ever felt we spend a lot of time I'm thinking about data privacy, like a worrying amount. And after all of that thinking a mulling over. The thing we discovered is data privacy is hard. And it's a massive problem. It's been estimated that so far, there's been 6.6 billion personal accounts hot. That's one for basically everyone on the planet. You start to look at the news. And this stuff is everywhere. It's impossible to avoid. And I'd be willing to bet that pretty much everyone in this in this room cares about data privacy. It's no longer something that compliance teams are worried about, and getting caught up in, you know, an alphabet soup of regulations like GDPR, CCPA blah, blah, blah, blah.
Shane Curran: It's now a feature of your product. And product teams are thinking about it from day one. And we think it should be baked into your software stock, but so far, the toolkit for doing that
Shane Curran: Just really sucks.
Shane Curran: We think we need privacy cages. And this is the new way of thinking about the problem that we've been working on. And we think it's something that the entire industry as a whole should adopt. And it's something that just not that not just as you're thinking about. So what is the privacy cage? privacy cages are basically just environments that you put your code in, and they've no access to any external input or output. So everything that happens inside is totally secure. And after off the back of our funding round, most reason for undergrad led by Sequoia, we spend a lot of time building a product called evervault cages. And this is something that and this sort of deployment flow is something that we think data privacy should be reduced down to. In the same way you can charge your credit card in a couple of seconds, you can deploy to the cloud in a couple of seconds. We think data privacy should be this easy. But I could spend all this time talking about us on our company, but I'd much rather have everyone In the audience, just think about the problem itself. So we've written what we like to call the pragmatic privacy Manifesto. And this is something we just published today. I won't go into detail on every single one of those headings. But I implore you to take a look on our new blog on page where we talk about these in detail. And we love to hear more converse about this online and keep the conversation moving. Thank you.
Sunil Sharma: That was great Shane
Sunil Sharma: 19 years old. Next up, we have Alina Lapusneanu, the CEO and co founder of Fiskl, which is a London based FinTech company whose vision is to democratize financial management for micro businesses globally. So please welcome to the stage Alina from Fiskl.
Alina Lapusneanu: Hello. How many of you in this arena have your own business or have dreamt about starting your own business? How many of you have dreamt about spending your weekends managing business finances? There are half a billion businesses in the world with less than 10 employees. About 20. The number is set to increase by 20% over the next 10 years. The global economy is built on small businesses yet they are the most underserved in terms of technology. 190 million of them use digital mobile services. Yes, most of them do not use cloud software. And 80% of them struggle with business finances. This is why We built fiscal, we built a fiscal to enable anyone to manage their mobile finance their finances from just their smartphone. We built Fiskl for the business owner and not for the accountant. We built Fiskl to make it beautifully beautiful invoice intuitive and automated. We build fiscal to invoice in any language and we price that for every country.
Alina Lapusneanu: And this is what Fiskl looks like. You can as a business owner, you can see your status at any time. You can invoice in under two minutes, and you want in the world and you can
Alina Lapusneanu: and you can take payments locally and globally. Fiskl was launched just under a year ago, and we already have customers in over 116 countries. To reach our customers we needed a strong distribution network. For this, we have partnered with a variety of companies such as mobile operators, banks, cloud and payment providers. In fact, tonight, we announced the partnership with we pay from JPMorgan Chase. Fiskl is not just a SAS platform. Our API's and data engine provide banks and lenders with true financial data intimacy in real time. This data is crucial to enable them to understand and better serve their customers.
Alina Lapusneanu: I need to lie to use Fiskl there is a surprise offer code. Web Summit uses the point sign up. My name is Alina Lapusneanu. I'm the CEO and co founder of Fiskl and we make managing finances for small businesses easy and affordable for everyone. 
Alina Lapusneanu: Thank you.
Casey Lau: Our next speaker is Dee Coakley. Whoa, some fans out there, the co founder and CEO of Boundless an end to end employment solution that makes it easy for companies to handle payroll and HR compliance for their international remote workers. Let's put your hands together for Boundless
Dee Coakley: Good evening Web Summit. A quick show of hands who here runs a business with remote workers? Okay, quite a lot of hands. So many of you will understand that employing people in other countries is hard. Boundless makes it easy to employ anyone anywhere. Right now, we're witnessing a major shift towards remote working and distributed teams. And money companies treat the remote international workers as contractors. But this is an our compliance with employment law and a lot of countries. And it's very rarely compliance in the longer term. In a growing number of countries, the local tax authorities have been writing to companies telling them that they must make their contractors compliance employees by the end of this tax here. So companies need to do this in a compliant way. But employing people in other countries is incredibly difficult. During my 10 years and COO roles, I set up payroll in eight countries. And it was slow, painful and expensive. It was a different process every time. It took between four weeks to 18 months to get set up in each country of Boundless. We spoken with CEOs at 70 different companies, and they're all looking for a better way to manage international employment.
Dee Coakley: Boundless takes care of the pain of in country setup, so you don't have to. We act as the legal employer for your remote workers. We process payroll, distribute salaries, file taxes and ensure quality with local employment laws instead of taking months to get set up to employ someone in a new country with Boundless, it takes hours. This is a huge Marcus. And with increasing focus on remote working across all sectors, this space is set to grow exponentially over the next few years. The Boundless founding team is an experienced group of technologists, operators and builders united in our mission to make it easy to employ anyone anywhere. If you'd like to know more, visit us at Boundless Hq com forward slash WS 19. Thank you.
Sunil Sharma: That was just great.
Sunil Sharma: So next up, we have SafetyWing they build a global safety net for online freelancers. SafetyWing is currently offering a trial medical insurance for digital nomads. Now speaking for SafetyWing today will be co founder and CTO Sarah Sandnes. Please welcome Sarah to the stage.
Sarah Sandnes: Hello everyone.
Sarah Sandnes: I am going to talk about how remote work will change the world and why we need a global social safety nets. remote work simply means not having to go to an office. Whether you're an employee or a freelancer, all you really need is a computer and an internet connection. remote work is big and it will become huge. The Economist quoted a number of 1 billion remote workers by 2035 SafetyWing is fully remote We'd gather our core team four times a year. But in everyday life, we're spread across the globe. Our full team of 25 are from 15 different countries, and most of us no longer live in the country we're from. Some remote workers will stay in their home country, while others will use tools like Nomad lyst to find their perfect city match. They will bring their own jobs, and they're just there to live and spend money. I predict a future where cities and countries will compete to get these workers to come live their immigration laws will change. Thanks to the Internet, and remote work, the world is taking huge steps towards equal opportunities except when it comes to welfare. Then the new workforce falls between the cracks of the existing national systems. This is why we need a global social safety net. A good social safety net like the one we have in Norway, where I'm originally from, consists of health insurance, disability insurance, pension savings and income protection.
Sarah Sandnes: So this is what we're going to build just for the whole world.
Sarah Sandnes: We have proven that we can create a global a global insurance product that is innovative. And we have grown 30% a month since we launched a year and a half ago. We're just about to launch our second products, a global health insurance for remote teams, which means where companies can, where companies can get insurance for all of their employees in a one stop shop, no matter where they are in the world. We will then launch a global savings and pensions product, which will be the world's first of its kind. Then we will bundle our products into one package, forming a complete social safety net as a membership. A global social safety nets is a fundamental part of the global future of work. Someone has to build us. And that's someone is us at SafetyWing. Thank you.
Casey Lau: All right, that was great. Our final speaker before the break is Jaleh Rezaei, the CEO and co founder of Mutiny, Mutiny helps companies personalize their web. site for each visitor in order to close more sales. Prior to Mutiny, Jaleh was the head of marketing at Gusto, where she and her co founder discovered the need for personalization, and were inspired to build Mutiny. Let's give it up for Mutiny.
Jaleh Rezaei: The biggest problem every company faces is growth.
Jaleh Rezaei: Today, companies spend $300 billion on digital ads to drive people to their website, and another hundred billion dollars in marketing technology to convert those people. Yet 99% of the visitors bounce because they didn't immediately understand why the product is great for them. Mutiny helps companies personalize their website for each visitor in order to convert More of the traffic into customers. My co founder and I experienced this problem firsthand as early employees at gusto. I led marketing from the seed stage. And what I realized was that while our product was a really good fit for a lot of different businesses, the same marketing message didn't necessarily resonate. And as we started to try to tailor our message for each vertical, we learned why it was so challenging and why so few companies were actually personalizing their sites. So to personalize our site, we needed to know who's visiting. We needed to be able to prioritize between all the different visitors segments, change their experience and measure the results. And to do that we needed a ton of engineers, data scientists, designers and analysts. There are virtually no marketing teams that have actually access to these types of expertise. And that's why we built Mutiny. To solve all of these problems in one place with software. Mutiny identifies visitors in a compliant way with a pre built data integrations. It analyzes the website traffic and conversion data in order to identify the highest impact segments for personalization has a visual editor that lets you change any website and change the experience for a visitor. And it has built in analytics to measure the impact of personalization. All of this is enabled by adding a single line of code to the website. Our first market is SAS. Today we work with some of the fastest growing SAS companies such as segment racks and amplitude. For example, one of our customers amplitude A product analytics company uses me Need to show each visitor logos and customer testimonials based on their industry. A consumer tech company visiting amplitude calm will see instacart and Twitter whereas a b2b company will see box and Cisco. This has increased their leads by 54% because people want to know how their peers are using amplitude and other have come summer Brexit financial services company uses Mutiny to show fully tailored pages to each of their customers. And that has increased their signups by 200%. So, go to Mutiny Hq com and learn how you can turn your website into your number one growth channel. Thank you