
Casey Lau: 5G is inching closer to becoming a reality for many people and there is no question it will make devices faster, smarter, and more connected. But it is truly difficult to understand the enormous impact this will have on our daily lives. Joining us here at Web Summit to help visualize a world with 5G, please give a huge welcome to the CEO and Executive Vice President of Verizon Consumer, Ronan Dunne.
Ronan Dunne: Bom dia, Lisboa. Great to be here. What would a powerful film to start. Thank you so much for the opportunity to talk about something that I'm passionate about. That's 5G or fifth generation wireless networks. Now, the truth is, you've all heard a ton of about 5G, you've heard the hype, you've heard the marketing. Yet, truthfully, for a lot of businesses and for a lot of consumers, they haven't really yet discovered exactly how revolutionary this technology truly is. So what I'm going to try and do over the next 18 minutes is persuade you that revolutionary is exactly the right word to use about 5G and how this revolution will shape everything, business and society in the years ahead. So let me start with some fundamentals. 5G is not simply another G. If I may misquote Henry Ford, it's not simply a faster horse, 5% in truth to 4G is what the automobile was to the horse, what TV was to radio. Fundamental change. So if you are familiar, as I'm sure you all are with this concept of a 10 x engineer or developer,  think of 5g as the 10 x technology to harness all that talent. It's so powerful, that in truth, the best way to think about it is the it in fact, is a wholly new technology, ushering in a new era of transformation. 
Ronan Dunne: Now to talk about the future, we have to look to the past. Throughout modern history, industrial revolutions have coincided with the arrival of a fundamental, general purpose technology, innovations that serve as drivers for whole categories of future innovation. The first of those industrial revolutions gave us the basic elements of modern industrial society, driven by the arrival of the steam engine. The second industrial revolution was driven by the arrival of electricity, ushering in a technological revolution. Then the third Industrial Revolution brought on by personal computing, the World Wide Web, the search engine, and the online sharing economy that's given us things like Lyft, Uber and Airbnb, to just mention three. And so it's in that context that people are now talking about this idea of a fourth industrial revolution 4 IR, featuring highly connective technologies that blends the physical and the digital realms like never before. These include technologies that you're familiar with, like virtual reality, augmented reality, IoT, AI, autonomous vehicles, you know, advanced robotics, to name but a few. But the truth is, although those cables abilities are ones that you know and recognize, the challenge is perhaps you don't yet fully comprehend those technologies in the context of a 5g world. 
Ronan Dunne: So the truth is, the general purpose technology of this new industrial revolution is 5g. Think about it, for IR is all about fast, clear connections. But it's not just between people and people. It's actually between people and devices and increasingly, its connections between devices and devices. That's why this connective network is the universal enabler, the essential platform of which I believe the next generation of our economy, and our society will be built. Look, we realize that lots of people are promising 5g these days. But you Verizon True 5g requires what we call the eight currencies. Look, let me tell you about these currencies. You can think of the currency simply as capabilities. There are eight. They are available to be delivered individually. But more particularly when you bring them all together, they create unprecedented possibilities. In truth, without all age, you're not really talking about true five Jay. So let me dive in and talk a little bit about them. The first of these currencies is high speed peak data. Currently 4g networks average about 100 Meg's but can transmit data up to one gig with five GU content. That's up to 10 gigs per second. The second currency is extremely robust data throughput. In fact, in 5g, it's not like 10 X, but actually it's 100 x larger data volumes. The third of the currencies is all about latency, or as we would describe it in the gaming community is click to bang today. 4g networks on average latencies, about 80 milliseconds with 5g end to end latency is under 10 milliseconds. To put that in perspective, that's an autonomous car traveling at 100 kilometers an hour reacting to a signal in 10 centimeters versus 1.2 meters. So why does that matter? That's the difference between ups and an insurance claim. The fourth of those currencies is the ability to connect lots of mobile devices at once. 4g networks can handle 100,000 connected devices in a square kilometer. But actually, I'm 5g, you can tax that again, over a million devices in the same space. And this makes it possible to have a true Internet of Things. We're truly everything is connected to the fifth of the currencies for 5g is the ability to keep up with mobile devices move High speed, you may not realize it. But right now, 4g can't actually keep up with the fastest high speed trains that are out there because it levels out at about 350 kilometers per hour. With 5g we can boost that up to 500 kilometers per hour. Critical as we think of the build out of high speed rail systems and advanced transportation infrastructure. The sixth currency is pretty simple. Its service deployments, instead of days and weeks to deploy capability think about minutes fundamental capability deployment in the network within 90 minutes, thanks to the systems made possible by five G. And the seventh is all about reliability. This is the ability to move from a traditional five nines environment to an unprecedented six nines environment. And this is about having the right components in place. Critically, it's about fiber deep fiber. It's about millimeter waves. spectrum, real estate network density, small cells, and the ability to support ultra wideband. Like a lot of other carriers, Verizon has been investing in all of these components for several years, which is why it's the only company today who can offer all eight currencies. And we're already seeing amazing business applications that become possible when all of these components are in place. Now, if you've been paying attention, I've talked about seven currencies. And now I want to focus down on the eighth because for me, this final currency is something that I believe is becoming more of a priority not just for Verizon but for society as a whole. And that's energy efficiency. 5g energy consumption is expected to be only 10% of the usage we currently see on 4g. That's a 10 x improvement. Advanced networks are already enabling us to do a lot in this area. You're familiar with Viktor telematics smart meters smart cities, were already helping companies and communities worldwide to track their usage of electricity and other scarce resources. This last currency leads me to a broader point about how 5g will matter, not only for business and consumers, but fundamentally the future of our planet. Now Verizon our commitment to sustainability begins at the very, very top. Our Chairman Holmes Vestberg is from Sweden. And like several other high latitude nations, that country is experiencing some very serious climate change effects, such as huge wildfires in the Arctic Circle, on the Leadership Council of the United Nations has helped to establish the UN Sustainable Development Goals, including specifically FDG 13, which is dedicated to climate action, but my time and Telefonica is who to was the host rated carrier in Europe, as measured independently by the carbon trust with its standard for carbon, water and waste management. And I published a three year Think Big blueprint for sustainable business, publicly committing the business to ambitious goals and to peer and NGO review. together and our long standing commitment to sustainability and energy efficiency is swiftly transforming our business culture at Verizon. So in my own native Ireland is generally considered to be largely well insulated from the most extreme effects of climate change. But let me tell you two factors. Already in Ireland over the last 30 years, it's experienced the majority of its warmer years, six of the highest temperatures ever recorded in the last 10 and the seas are rising a three and a half centimeters a decade in an environment where 40% of the population lives within five kilometers of the sea. So at Verizon, many of us in senior leadership are personally aware of this relationship between technology and the environment. So what is 5g and the fourth industrial revolution have to do with sustainability? Well, let's here's what we know this the world's population is growing, estimated to grow between 3,000,000,004 billion people by 2100. And most of that growth will be mainly in climate vulnerable regions, like Sub Saharan Africa, like South Asian, the Middle East. In other words, humanity is not going to shrink its way out of this problem. We have to innovate our way out of it. And that's where the fourth industrial Industrial Revolution comes in. I believe that the fourth industrial revolution could hold and in some cases even reserve reverse the damage set in motion, but the previous three so how do we make that happen? Well, first of all we have to have a coalition of the one of the one of the one of the one of the one of the one of the one of the one of the one of the one of the one of the little, little, little, little, little little, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you greatly improve energy efficiency can cut carbon emissions and resource usage across production cycles from manufacturing to shipment to packaging to reuse right across the supply chain. In addition, for our networks, sensors and autonomous devices can yield new insight in how our climate is changing. This will give scientists and policymakers more information about our climate, and essentially much more quickly. These advantages will help them move effectively to mitigate climate change, and where appropriate, help communities to adapt. Now, I completely understand why you might be skeptical about how these technologies could have an Net beneficial impact on the climate. After all, let's be truthful, the tech sector has a long way to go in reducing its own carbon footprint. But let me give you one reference point. We're some seeing some real progress at Verizon in 2017. The year which we introduced unlimited data to our customers, we saw a 28% reduction in our carbon intensity of our operations against the 2016 baseline that's in one single year. And our goal is to cut carbon intensity in half by 2025, verses that same 2016 baseline. But the truth is, there's much more to do. And it's why at the recent United Nations General Assembly week in New York, we declared our company's commitment to sustainable business practices. at the UN, we showed a very powerful and immersive film on the urgency of climate change, and I'd like to share that film with you now.
Someone: It is such a gift
Someone: to live in a world of endless beauty.
Someone: walk across lands that inspire every one of our senses.
Someone: To each be a tiny part of the story of this place
Someone: we all know
Someone: this planet Earth
Someone: and yet right now
Someone: At this moment,
Someone: all two undeniably
Someone: The story is changing
Someone: in alarming ways.
Someone: In the wake of human impact, the cost is clear, leaving us the responsibility to contend with the danger and the devastation.
Someone: While the landscape might be alarming. The possibilities are amazing. Because the technology is already here, we need to limit the increase of Earth's average temperature to 1.5 degrees Celsius long term We have to protect the ecosystems that support life as we know it, and switch to clean, renewable energy, solar, wind, hydro energy sources that don't poison our air and pollute our planet. We have to change how we live in cities, how we build and how we travel. Now is the time to turn our ideas into actions. Time to be the generation that church a new course for humanity because there is no planet b
Ronan Dunne: What an incredibly powerful statement and enormous thanks to our partners at Riot for making that look, the SD Geez, dress up wide range of issues but essentially boils down to this. We have to end extreme poverty and tackle climate change by 2030. As a participant in the United Nations sustainable development solutions network, our chairman became convinced that the tech industry has a huge role to play in addressing these goals. And that's why we're here. But what can you do? What can all of us do together to make a real impact? Well, there is something we can do and I'd like to share a peek at what is possible when we all work together. So please roll this brief VT
Ronan Dunne: So our company and others are teaming up with global citizen and the UN Deputy Secretary General Amina Muhammad to support global goal live. We're working with leaders all across the sector to commit and drive towards these global LocalGlobe live campaign which will be announced as part of the events on September 26 2020. And I hope you will be part of making this one of the most impactful campaigns that the world has ever seen the power of us all working together. Truthfully, we need individuals at all levels, from high school students to the CEO to think expansively about their potential power to inspire and mobilize others. Within this audience, we have an unparalleled level of talent, and capability. So whether you're a founder or a business owner, whether you're an employee or a homemaker, a retiree or a student, I would urge every one of you to think about how to exercise your unique agency to address these challenges. And as an important part of that, I asked you to think about how the coming generation of technology can best serve you, your family, your community, your business, and ultimately Your planet. The truth is, there isn't an alternative future. It's our only future. And my belief is that we have the formula for success here. And that's why I'm here to talk to you think about 70,000 at Web Summit multiplied by  5G, I believe can equal a 10 x improvement in outcomes for people and for our planet. I hope you will join us in this historic work. Let's do this together obrigado web Summit obrigado Lisboa Thank you.