
In the first half of this year, venture capitalists have spent $66 billion purchasing equity in promising startups, according to the latest data from PitchBook. At this pace, VC spending this year could surpass 100 billion dollars for the second year in a row. That's a lot of venture capitals. How many startups are right around me right now? You start up? How about you? Are you start up? And who's raising money for a startup around me? Nobody. Interesting. Because this panel is going to be all about venture capitalists. So I want all the startups in the audience to keep their eyes on the speakers on this next panel because if you see them walking around Lisbon, you're going to want to pitch them as soon as you can. So the three world leading VCs, who have invested in companies such as Epic Games, Spotify, and Element AI are on stage to discuss what investment trends we can expect for the next 12 months. Please welcome to the stage Chief Financial correspondent of Axios, Felix Salmon, Par-Jorgen Parson of Northzone, Bradley Twohig of Lightspeed Venture Partners, and M12's Rashmi Gopinath.
Tony Blair, welcome back.
This is, we've given up on on politics at this point. We're just going to talk about venture capital. And if any of you guys want to start raising some money, these guys have a few billion dollars for you. They just come up afterwards say Hi, can I have a billion dollars? So, they will write a check on the spot. But let's, why don't we introduce ourselves first Par-Jorgen you can start. Where are you based? And especially like, how many European companies are you going to invest in over the next year?
Yes. I'm PJ. I'm based in Stockholm. Our firm has offices in Stockholm, Oslo, London, and New York City. And we invest in about 15 early stage companies and we actually invest in and an additional 50 and really seed companies per year. So we'll, we'll probably put about 70% of them into the European market.
Brad? 
I'm Brad Twohig. I'm a partner at Lightspeed. I co lead our growth fund. We'll invest between five and ten companies in Europe in the next 12 months. In the past 12 months, it's been about five. So that's what we're mainly focused on from a Europe perspective.
And how much you giving those companies on average?
Growth investments will be anywhere between 25 and $100 million into any one investment for us.
Whereas Rashmi, you are a little smaller than that.
Hi, everyone. I'm Rashmi Gopinath. I'm a Managing Director at M12. We're Microsoft's venture fund. We invest globally, average on a year, we're doing anywhere between 20 to 25 deals, 10% of 10 to 20% of which are typically done out of Europe and Israel. So that means we'll be doing anywhere between three to six deals here.
And how big are those deals on average?
So series A through C is what we do, deploying a check size between 2 to $10 million per deal.
So let's start with the the trends. Are there any, like big theses that your overarching theses that you like bought into and trying to invest in? Rashmi?
Sure, so enterprise is what we do. And within the b2b sector, we look at any investments in cloud infrastructures, cyber, AI, DevOps, open source, SaaS. I would say some of the key trends that we're pretty excited about for 2020 fall into three broader categories. One is around the automation that AI and machine learning brings. And the majority of the technology is moving from the human supported machine led into being more of the human governed machine led, and ultimately into machine led governed and operated on. So those technologies start maturing and there is more decision making that's done by the machine, and less augmentation by the human that becomes interesting. The second areas falls within the cyberspace on data privacy, data security, data sharing, and also encompasses the defects and the disinformation space is fairly interesting. And then the last one is on the democratization of applications and falls on the entire spectrum from software development to how applications get rolled out and falls into this whole low code, no code category of how do you open up the software development ecosystem to a broader category of folks that do not necessarily have that engineering background to be able to put together applications across the enterprise.
So wait, did you say deep fix? Have you have you work out a way of like solving that problem?
We're looking to fund companies that have a way to solve that problem.
Brad, do you have any like big the big trend theses?
Yeah, sure. So in terms of lightspeed we invest in both consumer and enterprise software businesses, about two thirds of our practice will be enterprise software. I'd say 10 years ago, Europe on the enterprise side was relatively nascent. There weren't that many companies at scale. And a lot of the initial growth came from the consumer side of the market. You saw outcomes like delivery heroes along those Spotify, takeaway, etc, these multi billion dollar Farfetch these multi billion dollar outcomes. And now what I think we're seeing is a lot of enterprise software companies being built by the teams that were behind those businesses. They ran into the challenges at scale that a lot of the consumer businesses had and then applied kind of their software learnings to now going and building other types of businesses. So last investment we made out of a Swedish founded businesses and a company called Grafana in the DevOps space. And that was an investment we led about a month and a half ago. So we're starting to see that trend in enterprise software so 
And those people those founders used to have like a consumer facing company and now that switching,
yeah, not not just they had consumer companies before, but maybe they worked at or had friends who worked at those businesses who had challenges in those broader spaces. And so they may have been a DevOps person who'd been a consultant to those companies and are now seeing a broader need base than just a hyper at scale, kind of consumer businesses that are out there.
PJ, you you're almost entirely consumer facing investments, right?
That's me personally, but the firm we have a lot broader mandate than that, and quite a few of our partners are really going all in on the enterprise and b2b opportunities and, and as a matter of fact, the SaaS opportunities in Europe are, are abundant and, and I think that is probably one of the most important In the market right now that you have the ability to package value chains with new business models that the existing you know, big industry, players are not able to meet or to compete against. And I think that that goes into so many relevant industries that are facing that kind of opportunity and, and on Finn on the FinTech side, which is a tremendously attractive area to invest in the across Europe and, and the the European financial institutions and the financial structure is actually very well equipped to, to work with startups. And, for instance, we invested in a company called True layer, which is basically a layer that enables banking to happen outside of the bank, and without being hamstrung by, by by banking regulation. But with all the secrets Jordan, all that all that compliance that is associated with, say banking. So So we think that there that that part is extremely interesting going forward also.
the idea being the smaller, dedicated companies can be a little bit nimbler, they don't have the legacy problems associated with being huge. So Rashmi works from Microsoft, it's hard to come up with a bigger, more legacy. Do you be also investing in these nimble startups? Do you see that every day do you see in your portfolio companies them doing things that Microsoft wouldn't be able to do?
So the way we think about the premise of why M12 was set up in the first place was primarily to kind of be those signal sensors in the startup ecosystem and bring back the intelligence on where are the disruptions happening? What are the key innovation trends happening? and educate our product leaders on what's going on with the ultimate goal of forming some sort of meaningful partnership with these portfolio companies and go to market together with some solutions that address the broader need for customers. Microsoft obviously has a fantastic portfolio in the infrastructure space, in the productivity space and in the collaboration space. And these startups offer a lot of I would say contextual information about industries or what it goes that they provide solutions in, which creates this comprehensive solution that very impactful and meaningful he addresses what the customer needs are. And there's tremendous opportunity for us to partner together and go to market together with these companies
Brad, we hear a lot around these kinds of conferences about disruption. And in order to have disruption you need companies that get disrupted if you're in this enterprise software world. I mean, would you Considered a Microsoft or any of the other big giants to be the sort of target companies to be disrupted.
I actually think they've been a facilitator of disruption, which is an interesting kind of take on the matter in the in the sense that they're all building these cloud infrastructures kind of this base layer that allows for a lot of the enterprise software to be built on top of and one of the things that Microsoft has done is partnered with and invested in a lot of those businesses to help build that entire as your platform. Same thing with AWS. And same thing with GCP. And so we're actually generally viewing those larger businesses, facilitators of smaller companies being able to get to scale with much less capital because you're not building the large server infrastructure of a large cloud infrastructure necessary to do some of the more disruptive things in the market. Like running large AI, machine learning neural networks, those things that take huge compute power where you may have to spin up a whole grouping of servers and cores for a short period of time to train a model like that. So they they're both being disrupted and as well as facilitating the ability for entrepreneurs to find gaps and opportunities in the market.
PJ, you're the only person on the panel hasn't talked about AI yet. Is every company an AI company these days or is that just
yeah, I think AI is is sort of an abling thing that happens in the background and and i will see see it like as it's a level of abstraction, that you can abstract away some stuff that's, that's tedious, not particularly productive work. So I don't see it as a specific investment theme as such, unless it really changes the customer experience or the the productivity of that, that thing. So, so we we basically have that as an integral part of pretty much all our investment decisions. that there has to be a defensible, differentiated product that is in the market. And most of the time that involves some sort of AI. But there was also a lot of misconceptions about what AI is, you know, the know, you slam an AI label on stuff that is really basically just, you know, here a cool thing.
Yeah, I would echo that. I don't think we're looking for AI companies, I think we're looking for companies who can apply AI and intelligent ways to address a problem to automate repetitive tasks that maybe somebody would have been doing in the past and ultimately, then allowing companies to drive better margins, better customer service, better user experience, because of the application thereof.
And the AI that you think is often there's not as they're just buying sort of off the shelf from the big legacy cloud providers
or there's like open source protocols that they're using on top of those cloud solutions. In order to do so,
so Rashmi, how do you? How do your companies differentiate themselves when everything is commodities like that.
So I would say that the underlying AI models that all the big companies provide like Microsoft and Google and others have, I would say, some base level differentiation in terms of what we could do better. And that ties back into, again, some of the core efficiencies of what the company has to offer. So TensorFlow may be well known for doing a certain kind of workload. Cortana is really well known for doing a certain kind of workload. So the goal is, developers have the opportunity to pick best of breed based on what applications they're looking to build, and it provides more options and avoids the vendor lock in situation for developers to choose between different AI base level algorithms that each company has to offer
and those developers and increasingly anywhere, right? I mean, you just opened an office in India. And Brad, you're just moving, how you just hired someone in London?
Yeah, we added a partner to the team who's based out of London, an individual by the name of Rytis Vitkauskas, who'd been both an entrepreneur and an investor prior to come into Lightspeed. So we do have an office in London now.
PJ this the big guys are coming into Europe. 
Yeah
Are you worried
know, I think that's it's actually pretty good news for the European ecosystem. Because we're, it's not that we are over funded. We have tremendous entrepreneurial talent. We need also players in all stages and Brad for instance is representing predominantly a later stage opportunity, which is actually a gap in the market still. And and I think you with the, the connection you have to Microsoft, you know, we need to be better connected to the big platform company. In order to build really to scale a bit into their infrastructures as well,
well, we believe that the the differentiation that we get in diversifying our portfolio across different geographies is a huge plus, with the boundary is getting shorter everywhere. We have companies and us that actively sell into Asia, we have companies in Europe that sell into the US markets. It's harder to classify where exactly a company belongs to because the market is increasingly global. And we want to fund the best companies no matter where they come from.
Brad is that true. I mean, I hear a lot about rising nationalism and barriers and trade wars. It's like, people talk about things becoming increasingly global. But like, Tim, finish us all we really are. Is that actually not true?
Yeah. I think the really great venture firms and I'm here with two of them, focus more on building really great companies with the other shareholders that are involved in that business. And so I think we view ourselves more as like coopetition as opposed to people who directly compete with one another. So like, will often go and be very interested in the same categories. But as we're investing into those companies at different stages, we're all just trying to help the entrepreneurs think through that portion of scaling that portion of realizing a large outcome for the business for the shareholders and stakeholders. And so we largely like as we come into Europe are looking to partner with the venture firms in the market, not necessarily compete with them.
Well, I'll be sure to introduce you you know backstage. PJ, Brad, Rashmi, thank you very much. 
Thank you. 
Thank you.