
All right, we're just going to roll right into the afternoon sessions right now, starting with our next guest, who has spent the past four years at the heart of one of the world's most prominent and talked about tech companies. Even after a year of many significant ups and downs, this company still boasts 99 million monthly users, and most of us have probably even used it today. Here to share insights from those four years as well as an exclusive look at what the near future holds in compensation with Tim Bradshaw the Financial Times. Please give a big welcome to Uber's Manik Gupta.
So you rode that here from San Francisco, huh?
Oh, absolutely. It's a long range scooter.
But uh, yeah. So the jump is, jump was, jump bikes launched first in Europe in Lisbon. And now, scooters?
Yeah, I'm really excited to announce that starting today. In fact, right now, we are launching scooters in Lisbon. And right after this session, don't go yet, right after this session, right outside Web Summit, you can get access to almost 200 scooters that we put out there for you to use. And if you're a first time user, you can use it for free. So this makes it
Yeah. So So that's, that's what I'm really excited about. Cool. Cool.
So yeah, so 10 years ago. black cars black limos. Luxury travel. Now, bright red scooters. Tell me about the journey that Uber is on right now with broadening all of these crazy different options for transport.
Yeah. So you know, we will be finishing 10 years as a company next year. And the last nine years have been amazing. We started off by creating a black car service. And the magic of Uber was you push a button and you get a ride. And then over the years, we moved that from launching products like Uber x, which were more affordable. And then we launched Uber pool, which is about car sharing, and which was again at a different price point. And then in the last few years, we have really explored multiple mobility options, jump bikes, scooters, as we launched today, and also in some markets, in fact, 10 cities around the world, we have public transit, that's also integrated within the Uber app. So when we look at how we want to go towards the next 10 years in the future, we really want Uber to be the operating system for everyday life. And what that really means is be the one stop shop for your daily transportation and local commerce needs. And that as me as a product guy, I'm like really focused on building that long term vision.
Right, and so I mean, the bikes and scooters that one of the newer components of all of that, how is that going? What are the kind of, are you seeing people use these things? Can you see a lot of a lot of scooters and a lot of street corners across Europe and the states now, are people using them?
Oh, absolutely. So I this is my first time in Lisbon. It's a beautiful city, really happy to be here. And when I was here on Sunday, and I was just going around, and there's so many people using jump bikes and all different kinds of scooter and mobility options. And in Europe now, we have launched scooters and bikes in over 10 cities. And just in the last eight months or so, people have driven on these bikes and scooters almost 14 million kilometers. Okay, so you know, people are using this to your question and pretty effectively.
Cool and so how, how does that kind of fit in with the with the mix of how are you integrating that into the app? Because you've got all these these different options that you want to do it. So, and in many cases, people are now taking bikes and scooters where they may have previously called an Uber for a kind of short distance. How do you how do you make sure that people know what's available to them? And how do you kind of integrate that into the one small rectangle?
Yeah, now, so that's actually a very interesting product design and user interface challenge. But the way we think about this is we want to provide all the relevant options to every user who wants to go from point A to point B, based on convenience, reliability, affordability, and their personal preference. And the way we think about this as for bikes and scooters is we have integrated a new view now where you open the Uber app on the map itself, you can see all the bikes and scooters that are near you. And you can just click on the icon of a bike or a scooter just from the home screen, and then you can reserve it and you can just kind of go there. It's mostly in walking distance anyway, you can just go there. and unlock the product. And as we are looking at how we bring some of these options in a more integrated way, when you enter the destination in the Uber app, we show you a bunch of different options with regards to the pricing and the ETAs, and so on. And we're seeing users make all the choices because they want to choose the most convenient way to get around. 
But so previously with with jump, you had a sort of separate icon, and now they're actually showing on the map the same as the little cars that drive around. It's all there in one place. So it's more instantly accessible. 
Yeah, that's exactly right. And we still have different products, like we have a jump app, and so on, because there are a lot of users who just want to use that to, I think part of this is how we are evolving as a company. And this is where it goes back to when we think about being the operating system for everyday life. How do we provide all the information in a personalized and contextual way for more than 100 million users that use our products on a monthly basis? So that's a very strong focus for us as a company.
And so you're at the moment you're, I mean, your background is in maps, right? We're working on Google Maps for a number of years before you came to Uber. But you're you're actually now testing a version of the Uber app, which doesn't open to a map, right? There's a different kind of design challenge there to try and encourage people to use other products that aren't just getting a ride. How does that Why did you make that decision? What does that look like? How is it testing?
Yeah. So you know, if you look at a mobile phone, and you talked about this in just a couple of minutes ago, you have very, very small real estate. And a lot of people when they use apps, they want information in the context so that they can, you know, they can find the right information, and they can be on their way. So we are testing multiple different options. So about a month ago, we announced that we will be bringing more of the other non ride sharing services into the Uber app. So one version of our app that we are testing is to have no map but have a button which says get a ride and another button which says auto food, and then some personalized actions below that with regards to just one click and you can take a ride. So we're testing that version. We have another version where you still have a map because that's what users are used to. But we have at the bottom, we have a bunch of icons, which allow you to access those services. And then the other product that we launched, this has been more than a year at this point. For some of the emerging markets, starting with India, in 2720, early 2018 or so, we launched a Light version of our app. And that version does not have a map by default. But you can click on a link and it shows you the map. So you know, this is a very interesting design challenge for us in terms of the map itself, the contextual information, how is it personalized? And if our goal is to bring all this together for a user, one payment method, one wallet, how do you make sure that you have the right information going there, so the user can choose the best and fastest, most effective way to get around or to order food? So that's how we are like thinking about all these experiments and how do we move forward?
Right, so the I mean, the idea of an operating system for everyday life sounds a lot like how WeChat operates in China. The Super Rappi kind of strategy is I mean, it is University Proud County, but they're super happen. And why has that kind of usage taken off much more in in China and Asia than it has in Europe and the US so far?
Yeah. 
One app to rule them all? 
Yeah. So So a couple of things I'd say. One is, I feel that the term super app is super overloaded, right? Because many people use it for different context. Our version is, or our vision around this is to provide the right information at the right time for every user. Right. And some of the signals that we are seeing right now is if you look at our each product 50% of users who sign up for EADS, are new to Uber. They've never used Uber before. At the same time, if you look at people who use jump scooters and bikes, once they start using that they use Uber Moore. So we are seeing all these signals both for our product and business standpoint, where if we can make an holistic experience in our app with the same payment Potential same login infrastructure, similar, you know, contextualize personalized information in the moment, we feel that we will be solving an unmet consumer need. And that's the reason why we are going after this strategy, how it evolves, does it become one app that rules at all does it it's multiple apps with sort of cross linking, it will depend a lot on terms of the experiments that we do what we learn, but also the regions that we operate in, you know, we operate in 65 countries 700 cities around the world and consumer needs are different in these markets in different regions. So we have to be mindful of that when we are building a global product.
So the idea isn't to kind of just stuff the Brad with more and more different ideas they'll be they'll be different ways of presenting it based on what you know about that person and what they like doing more so if I like featuring I will see this goose is more than someone else who just sees RISE. Yeah, um, but you're adding more and more different components to this all the time. I mean, one of them you just a couple of weeks ago you bought corner shop, which is a grocery delivery company altogether. mistake, I think in your Asana shop in Latin America. So where does groceries fit into this? you're delivering takeaway food with eats, wise groceries the next logical step, then.
Yeah, so for context, we took a stake in corner shop, company based out of Chile. And we are waiting for the deal to close. What we were really excited about when we looked at that company is it's a very technology driven company. The founders are very tech oriented. And they have built a fantastic business based on the economics that they have put together so far. And our goal with groceries is just meeting another daily need that users have. So if you think about what a normal user will do in many countries around the world on a daily basis, you're going to commute to work and back, or even if you are not working, you'll still have some way to go on a weekly daily basis. You will order you'll have food multiple times a day, right three times a day and so on. And you will also order groceries once twice, maybe three times a week or maybe once in two weeks, whatever your frequency is. So we believe that we have a very good technology and product infrastructure that we can bring efficiencies to new verticals like groceries. And that's the reason why we are investing in that. So with corner shop, as they come on board at once a deal is closed, we will absolutely launch groceries in many markets. And we will see how we can bring the power of our platform and the magic of Uber to many of these verticals moving forward
So that groceries would be a thing in outside Latin America, hopefully,
Eventually. Yeah, so we have nothing to announce today. But eventually, absolutely, yes.
There are different anchors that people take to these kind of multi purpose apps Uber apps. I mean, WeChat is messaging, which is a strategy that Facebook has tried to follow. Yours is very much kind of transport and logistics and getting people and things around. There's also the kind of wallet which is a really significant part of it. And we were talking this morning to Facebook about what they're doing with Libra. How does How do you see Uber moving into that kind of area because just last You want Uber money? Right? Which is what you push a button and dollars just come to your
Oh, absolutely, I wouldn't be all of that, right. So so let me tell you a little bit of a story around how we think about financial services and money. So this was a couple of years ago, where we had a pretty let me use the word spirited debate within the company around allowing users to pay using cash using paper money, right to take an Uber trip. And it was very counterintuitive for us as a company, because the whole premise of Uber is take out all the friction, right? push a button, get a ride, get in, get out, you're pretty much you know, in a frictionless kind of environment as much as possible. And when you have a situation where you have to take out your wallet, take out paper money and give it to the driver and then the driver has to give you a change. You know, it just includes a little bit of a friction in the experience. So it was a very spirited debate whether we should do this or not. We decided to do it. Today 40% of our trips are in cash flow 040 40%, right. And this this talks to how when we, when we build a global company, you have users all over the world who have very different preferences and very different needs. And you have to be very mindful about bringing that level of localization, even though it may seem very counterintuitive, right? So when we started going down that path when we started doing cash, we said, Okay, what else can we offer? And it turns out that our driver partners and career partners, if there are 4 million of them could ride on our platform on a monthly basis. Almost 30% of them today, when they come in, sign up to drive for Uber, they don't have a bank account. So it's one third of our driver population doesn't have a bank account. And if you don't have a bank account, you can imagine earnings becomes a problem because you know, you collect the money then you have to go to you know, in cash or money and so on and so forth. So last week, based on some of these insights and solving these needs We launched a new initiative, which is Uber money. It's primarily focused on the driver side. And we want to provide drivers access to their earnings in real time. You know, if you look at the evolution of how earnings have happened, people used to get paid once a year, then they started getting paid once in two weeks, right over time. And now, if you're driving on the Uber platform, you don't even have to wait to cash out, you have a debit card, the moment a trip is ended, you can just stop driving, go get a coffee, or whatever, and the money's already in your account. So the Axios, managing your money through a wallet, and then growing that money over time, bringing that sort of financial services to our driver population, which is underserved is a very important priority for us.
But there must be other things that once you when you know so much about your drivers and what they're earning, there must be other kind of financial services, you potentially launch off the back of that. I know that's something that an area that you've been sort of looked into in the past with Yeah, certainly install vehicles and things is that is that a good business to be in?
I mean, eventually it might be but you know, right now, I think we are very focused on how we can solve the Fundamental needs of our drivers. And in some cases, we have even launched overdraft facility on the debit card, and so on and drivers use it periodically. But my team's focus is to ensure that we are solving the core needs. If they can drive on the Uber platform, then they can obviously make the money on a flexible basis. And that's, that's really important for them.
And on the consumer side, there's an Uber credit card now there is a Uber rewards kind of points system. What What does that kind of loyalty scheme do for for you as a business? How do you know? Because there's so many competitors out there? 
Yeah. So so one of the so you know, one thing that I've been very focused on is how do we build long term user engagement on our platform. And in the past, when you're in a hyper growth phase, and we assume, you know, our revenue grew really fast in the past quarter. But when you're in a hyper growth phase, you're really focused on getting transactions on your platform. But now what we are seeing based on the signals that I was talking about, really In terms of cross services, and so on, we are starting to build these really interesting models, like a Uber rewards program, which is like a loyalty program, more than 20 million people have signed up for it globally. So that's one fifth of our active user base has already signed up for it. So we are building these levers, including subscriptions, and other mechanisms to allow people and provide them benefits so that they can create long term engagement on our platform to solve their own needs. So credit card is another example of that where if you use Uber credit card, you get a lot of exclusive discounts on Uber, so you can consolidate and, and use Uber for your daily needs.
It's really interesting to me that I mean, for the longest time that the things that the tech industry was worried about was broadband penetration, smartphone penetration, and now that we have two or 3 billion people in the world with a smartphone, actually the kind of financial services and financial inclusion has become this big new battleground for everyone in the valley. Right. I mean, why it must be harder? I don't know. Is that harder or easier than getting everyone on line in the first place?
Yeah, I think that's an excellent observation. I do feel that we, if you look at the phases of the internet development and web development, and even the smartphone penetration, as you said, we have reached a point where most and most people have access to smartphones and internet, you know, high broadband, internet and so on. Again, there are many markets, just to be clear there many markets where it still doesn't work. There's so many markets that have lower end phones, through our networks and so on. But it's a secular trend that over the next few years, it's going to play out. But I think what is happening is because of this, a new unlock is going on. And that unlock is about consumer behavior changing towards using the smartphone to replace what you do on a daily basis. Right. So from our perspective, we want the smartphone, your phone to replace your personal car. You don't need your personal car anymore, right? You should be able to use your smartphone to access all your transportation needs on a daily basis. And that's what we're excited about.
Okay. You mentioned Uber had results last night. I haven't actually checked what the share price is done this morning, but it was looking like it might not be up. But so you you, you had to kind of big piece of news one of them, you lost a billion dollars in the quarter, which is quite a lot of money. But your chief executive Dorae was saying that you're going to be profitable on a adjusted basis. Next 2021? Yep. How but at the same time, you're, you're expanding the range of things that you do. It's not just push a button, get a ride, it's got a scooter, get a grocery delivery, how do you make sure those things aren't in conflict? How do you become more efficient as a company while also broadening what you do?
Yeah. So just to kind of add a little bit more to the earnings yesterday, because just to give us context, the way I think about this, as the Chief Product officer is a few things. One is our core rights business continues to do very well. And in fact, they generated enough contribution this quarter past quarter on an adjusted EBITDA basis that we are profitable from including covering the cost of DNA and all our r&d investments. So yeah, Administrative Yeah, sorry, Jonathan initiative and r&d or research and development investments. So so that's good news. We are we are focused on that our revenue continues to grow at a very fast pace. And as you said, we will be profitable on an adjusted basis in 2021. That's the goal that we are set for the company. That's the goal Dorae set. And I think one of the things that we should keep in mind is, the next phase of the company really is about how do we use technology driven innovation, both in terms of gaining efficiency? So how do we become the most efficient and profitable business with regards to using technology and automation, but also the platform story that I was talking about? How do we build the long term user retention, long term user engagement because we have more to offer in a seamless way. So those are the two sort of areas which I'm personally focused on, where I feel that my team can uniquely help Uber get to the right profitability situation,
right. And is that I mean, the other thing that you talked about, was there a different kind of offerings that you have in different kinds of places. One thing I had not heard about until We were chatting earlier was the Uber boat in Lagos was it? Yeah. So tell me about why that's important. And another kinds of things that you're testing in markets that perhaps we wouldn't immediately know about in Lisbon or San Francisco.
Yeah. So we launched early in October, we launched Uber Bort in Lagos in Nigeria. And this is in partnership with the government. Because that is a very effective way for people to go to find from point A to point B in Legos. and integrating that in the Uber app is very helpful, because people can then compare different different options. And they can choose a car or they can choose board and so on and so forth. So so that's one of the examples.
So is it like a ferry or is it like a speedboat?
It's a ferry, right? So it's a ferry service that we launched in partnership with the government. Okay. And then, you know, similarly, in other markets, like if I was in India a couple of weeks ago, and we launched an integration with public transit, where we integrated Delhi Metro, which by the way, does a billion trips a year, a billion trips a year, right. And we integrate that into the Uber app. And now when you search for a destination, you not only get all the car options, but you can also see if there's a concert option that you can take, including the nearby station that you need to go to what time the train is coming, what time the bus is coming, and so on. And finally, again, using India as an example, among our fastest growing business segments in India, are three wheelers, which are called auto rickshaws in India, and also motorbikes where somebody is going to come to your house on a motorbike, and then you sit behind them and they take you where you want to go. Given the traffic in India, it's an excellent option. So a lot of these new modes of transportation, whether it's bikes and scooters, it's autos, its board. Our goal is to provide country by country, all these options in a seamless integrated way. Not only for transportation, but also for local commerce, which includes food delivery, food delivery and and groceries, and so on.
So you talked a bit about the public transport integration. What People using the Uber to check their cheap rides or what are the other cities that you've launched it in? Like, what's the kind of evidence that you're seeing from consumers that they want everything in one app? 
Yeah. So we launched, we started launching transit. About a year ago, we have launched in 10 cities. In fact, the 10th city was Washington DC. We just announced that last night, and we will launch another five cities through the next couple of months. So by the end of the year, and what has been very heartening for us to see is almost more than half a million users of Uber have opened the Uber app and choosing a chosen a transit experience. And in doing so, there has been no negative on our rides business. Right. So that's the interesting thing here, which I which is you know, sometimes these can be counterintuitive, because you would imagine, if you add another Moore, they kind of displaces another mode and so on. We just feel that when you provide users choice, and that's my product philosophy as well. If you provide users the right choice at right time, they will use you. And they'll be a lot of affinity for the product because they know it just works for you based on your needs. So that's kind of our focus right now.
Okay. What is the role in the sort of technological efficiencies that you can drive? Because, I mean, there has been some job cuts across the company in recent times. But how does that something that can come out in the, you know, you You're the product officer, Can Can you make Uber more efficient?
Absolutely. We have a lot of projects in flight right now, I can give you a couple of examples. One of them is around how we do customer support. There is that's a really important area. For us. Safety is a very big priority for us. Because, in fact, when Darroch came on board two years ago, he made safety our number one priority. And we I would argue that the amount of investment that we have made and the level of features that we have launched on safety have been very, very ahead of the pack, if you will, and related to safety. There are a lot of support later aspects that we can automate. So we have a strong team that's working on very, very Interesting model in terms of how to automate support, make it better make it more efficient. So that's one way. One way technology can help. The other one is around payment costs, you know, as we operate in so many cities around the world, and given the amount of money that we're processing outside of cash, there is a lot of focus on how we optimize our payment costs. So that's the other way to do it. 
Okay, we're out of time. But one final question. Jeff Holden, your predecessor was here two years ago talking about flying cars, is Uber still going to do flying cars?
Uber's going to do flying cars. We're working on it. Next year, we are going to have an experiment that will start launching and 2023 it's coming.
Okay, next year. Thanks very much. 
Thank you.