
Casey Lau: For those of you just joining us, we are halfway through listening to the most exciting startups attending Web Summit. We have eight more to go. So let's get going. 
Sunil Sharma: Okay, our next speaker is Rui Sales, President and Chief Operating Officer of Stratio, a company fusing automotive engineering with machine learning to drive a zero downtime future. Let's give a big hand for Rui.
Rui Sales: Good evening, Web Summit. At Stratio, we believe in a world without disruptions, without lost connections. A world where vehicles never break down. From a car blocking a road, to a truck with medicine or food that may never reach destination. We have all been affected by travel disruptions. Reliability is critical. To improve reliability, vehicle manufacturers do extensive testing in extreme conditions, from freezing mountains to burning deserts. However, many problems are only found when vehicles are already operating on the road, when it is already too late. Despite large investment in innovation, with today's technology, vehicle manufacturers will require infinite capital and an endless number of engineers to achieve zero breakdowns, zero disruptions. At Stratio, we have a solution. By fusing automotive expertise with machine learning, our research has allowed us to build an automated fault in anomaly detection system. It is a fully integrated, end to end solution with models that can detect a failure before it happens. Today, your vehicles cannot predict failures. We believe that in five to ten years, all vehicles will have this technology. Without realizing it, you have already seen our technology on the road. We work with some of the largest vehicle manufacturers in the world. Automotive technologies take time to mature at scale. We have seen firsthand the challenges vehicle manufacturers teams face. Without the acceleration of automated testing, electric vehicles will take longer to come to market. The same applies to the future of autonomy. Without this technology, driverless vehicles will fail. Stratio is ready to bring to you a future that is autonomous, electric, and reliable. No surprises, no disruptions, zero downtime. I am Rui Sales from Stratio, and have a great Web Summit.
Casey Lau: Alright next we have Tonic App who helps medical doctors diagnose and treat their patients by curating for them in a single mobile platform, the best professional resources from peers, publishers, regulatory bodies, recruiters, providers and the industry. Speaking today is Founder and CEO Daniela Seixas. Please welcome Tonic App.
Daniela Seixas: I know we have lots of entrepreneurs, tech people, venture capitalists in the room. Let me tell you what Tonic App is. Tonic App is health care. Tonic App is mobile. Tonic App is b2c. Tonic App is b2b. Tonic App is data. I know. It sounds insane, but we are pulling it. In a world where digital content and tools are dispersed throughout the web, we are aggregating the best professional resources to help medical doctors diagnose and treat their patients in a single mobile platform. Tonic App is where medical doctors can find everything and everyone they need. It's where all other health care players can actually find medical doctors digitally. So meet Tonic App. Tonic App has specialized search engines for guidelines, codes of reimbursement, medical congresses. It also has clinical algorithms, diagnostic and treatment decision trees, news, jobs, and more. Tonic App is even a C marked medical device. We have had month on month retention rates above 50% over the past six months. We've acquired 30% of all medical doctors in Portugal, more than half of all family doctors. And we've closed October growing at 88% in Spain. Data. We've collected more than 97,000 data points in 2019 alone. We've just doubled actions per user. We know our health care data our real world medical data is going to change health care. And we understand that when that when medical content and tools are already of great quality, we need not to invent them. That's why we partner with the largest health care companies in the world. And meet Tonic App team. We were just eight before summer. We are already 12 and we are growing very fast. I know that they are among you tonight. Tonic App, making health care simpler and happier. Thank you.
Sunil Sharma: That was amazing, Daniela. So our next speaker is Louise Lindblad, the co founder of Valispace. Valispace is a browser based software that enables engineers to collaboratively develop satellites, rockets, and other complex hardware. So let's welcome Louise from Valispace to tell us more.
Louise Lindblad: Hello, thank you. Let me start by showing you how messy the process of building a rocket actually is and how we at Valispace are changing that.
Someone: We need to find out what the final velocity would be for changed the fuel mix ratio to 4.5.
Someone: This calculation hasn't been updated in years
Someone: in pounds per cubic foot
Someone: just the current one
Someone: Alexa, start Valispace
Someone: Welcome to Valispace.
Someone: What would the final velocity of the rocket be if we change the fuel mix ratio to 4.5. 
Someone: The final velocity would be 14.3 kilometers per second.
Louise Lindblad: So this was a short glimpse into the future of engineering. But the reality is it's 2019. So why is this still so difficult to manage complex engineering projects? When I was a satellite engineer, I thought we would be working with all the modern futuristic tools, but the reality looked a bit more like this. In fact, engineers spend 86% of their time doing non engineering work. And at Valispace. We want to change that. I'm sure you recognize these two rocket boosters from SpaceX, which landed in February last year. Such a complex Engineering Task is only possible to achieve. If all the engineering data is digitized, connected and all accessible in one single place. Our web based platform is doing exactly that. And cutting edge companies from all over the world already using it to build rockets, satellites, moon landers and fusion reactors. They are digitizing their entire engineering tool chain, and saving more than the 30% of their time, which for a satellite project can be years. At Valispace. We want to empower the engineers of today to build amazing things. And we want to empower the engineers of the future to build things that we only can imagine today. Thank you.
Casey Lau: Banjo Robinson is a magical pen pal, a globe trotting cat who sends real personalized letters and creative activities to children twice a month from exciting destinations like the Taj Mahal and the Great Wall of China. A new to market subscription, which turns reading, writing and learning about the world into a magical game for five to eight year olds. Let's hear it for Banjo Robinson, CEO, Kate Boyle.
Kate Boyle: Hi. So when I was growing up, my dad would write letters and leave them around the house for me to find and I loved them so much. So As an adult, I started sending letters to my friends children. I wrote them from a globe trotting cat and I signed them with a paw print, and children. Even reluctant readers and writers started writing back to the cat. Why? Well, children are wired for connection and they love magic and make believe. And I realized there was an opportunity here to transform the way that we teach children to read and write, to turn it into a magical game. And that's just what we're doing at Banjo Robinson. So banjo is a magical globe trotting cat and he sends proper paper post real personalized letters to children from exciting places around the world, like the Taj Mahal and the Great Wall of China. The letters arrived twice a month and when they receive one children right back to banjo, and they leave their reply underneath the sofa for overnight collection by Banjo and his friends and then it's a bit like the tooth fairy in the morning, the letters will be gone. But banjo can respond at scale to the questions they've been asked. We've taken the we've taken the joy of writing to Father Christmas and we've combined it with subscription business, which allows us to publish personalized children's literature twice a month, every month. We're working with best selling children's authors, but we're not printing books we're zero inventory just in time fulfillment with a positive cash conversion cycle. We're at the nexus of three fast growth markets. And our advisors are world leaders in personalized print, entertainment, Ed Tech and children's IP and children love banjo in our product trial with moms net 90% of them wrote back to banjo these are children aged five to eight Parents are just as excited. With the highest level of parental engagement that Mumsnet have seen in a product test. We're impacting the home learning environment and classrooms alike and abroad. In Asia, Europe and South America, banjos letters are just beginning to teach children English. But banjo isn't just a character that children see on TV. He's their actual friend, they really like him. So we're not just a subscription business. We're building a global brand, a universe of Banjo Robinson and friends with super exciting products and development for older children, digital content, TV, toys and educational merchandise. We're huge fans of Sesame Street and its creators Sesame Workshop. And I'm really excited to announce tonight for the first time that we've just closed a seven figure pre seed investment with our dream investors, collaborative and ventures.
Kate Boyle: We're on a mission to change the way that children everywhere learn to read, write and understand their world. And we hope you'll join us. Thank you.
Sunil Sharma: That was great, Kate. So before we bring out the next company, we want you to be aware that for the main event due to broadcast constraints, we're going to ask you that as soon as we start, you all remain in your seats for the duration of the show. It's going to last for just over an hour. If you feel you need to leave before that time, I want you to know that we have many people in fact, 10,000 people waiting outside trying to get into the venue, so you'll have to give up your space to someone else. Let's move on with our pitches. Right next is Cat Forrest, a former Great Britain athlete, who is the co founder of Eastnine. The audio lead coaching club forum that's giving purpose to people's exercise and enabling them to create a genuine habit out of working out. Please put your hands together for Cat.
Cat Forrest: Okay, so you've all been listening to a lot of speeches all night. So I'm just going to start with a very quick piece of audience participation. Put your hand in the air if you would like to do more exercise. Okay, good. So, unsurprisingly 78% of people would like to do more exercise, but only 39% actually do. levels of insufficient inactivity or also highest in high income countries.
Cat Forrest: One of the things that we're really finding is that fitness apps on the market currently are doing very little to genuinely address this issue of inactivity. And that is where we're different. At Eastnine we try and connect our community, to our coaches. We have a clubhouse, rather than an office. And we really believe that bringing our audio coaching to life by regularly meeting up with our audience so that they can understand what we're trying to do, and we can understand what habits they need to form is the best way for us to make a difference. We have amazing coaches that I personally have picked, not just for their fitness expertise, which is second to none, but also for their own journey in sport and in exercise. So whether that's training the military, whether it's chasing team selection for the Tokyo Olympics, or helping people back on a journey from life threatening illness, our coaches really get what is required in order to achieve optimal health. They know how to deliver it through audio which believes isn't that easy, and they also know how to make it simple. And simplicity is the other piece we try and pull through into our product. Download the app, find your session, click Start. That's it. We've also recently removed the need for you to take your phone with you if you're going out for a run by being one of the first fitness apps on the market to release an Apple Watch app. But this is all just the start. We're really proud that so far, we've got over 15,000 members, joining our community and training with us regularly. We've got incredible investors such as angels like Sophia Bendz, and Nicholas Enstrom, and RBC LocalGlobe and Cherry. The gym industry is a $100 billion global industry. And we're on a path to making a better, more accessible, less intimidating solution that drives real results and puts the member first so if There's one thing that I asked you to do before you leave Web Summit. It's download Eastnine and join Vince on his daily leg stretch. Thank you.
Casey Lau: We've been at it for so long means you know I'm kind of tired. So it's going to be great to hear about the next startup, which is called Shleep. Shleep improves the performance of companies by improving the sleep of leaders and their teams through a digital sleep coaching platform. Shleep supports clients in creating a cultural change or on the topic of sleep and performance through the platform. Right speaking to today on center stage is co founder, Joeran Albers. Come on out.
Joeran Albers: Let's start with a little experiment. Please raise your hands if you needed an alarm this morning. I see there are many hands up. And that's the problem. At Shleep we believe that we are getting something fundamentally wrong in this world. We are not sleeping enough. And that's what we have built a company with a simple mission, helping the world sleep better. Today, I want to tell you why eight hours of sleep will impact everything. Some of you might say no eight hours of sleep impossible. You're on I need your and I have too much work on my plate. I need some time with my loved ones and I also need time for myself. And you're right about that. I hear you. I used to work very long hours when I was a consultant myself. But we also all getting it wrong. Because every minute of sleep loss directly impacts how much we get done the quality of our work and how much we make out of our personal lives. To illustrate this, let's assume you need eight hours of sleep. But you're getting only six. Research shows that after only four days, you will perform like someone who just drink four beers. So you are basically drunk. And the nasty thing is, you will not realize it because the sleep deprived mind loses self insight. We should all learn from leaders like Satya and Jeff who do make sleep a priority. And it's not that they can sleep more because they are in this position. No research shows that they are in this position because they have always made sleep a priority. So you can literally literally sleep your way to the top. There is a sleep deprivation epidemic out there. It costs companies three to 5000 US dollars per employee. Every single year, and actually, we believe that the true number is actually four times higher than that. So we had to change this, our team of neuro scientists and sleep psychologist, bring the latest research to employees all over the world with our digital sleep coaching platform. And we've shown to reduce sleep loss by up to 40% within only eight weeks. And we're here for more. Working with Shleep will make you become a better version of yourself. And your organization will benefit from more inspiring leaders work this full of energy and better relationships among your colleagues. Look, we know it's not easy to change, and even harder to change work cultures. And that's why we're here to help so please reach out to hello@shleep.com so that you won't need that alarm clock anymore. Thank you
Sunil Sharma: Okay, next up is Localyze, an all in one software solution that fully supports companies and their international employees relocation processes. Localyze His goal is to build bridges instead of walls through simplifying international mobility. So please welcome to center stage Localyze. Founder Hanna Marie Asmussen.
Hanna Marie Asmussen: Hi everyone. My name is Hanna, I'm the CEO of Localyze. And we do international employee relocation as a service. This is an extremely relevant topic because in this very moment 164 million people live and work outside of the home country. labor markets are increasingly global fired by talent. And the actual number of people relocating every year for work is growing at 20%. This is a great trend. But every person that ever relocated knows the problems. It starts with waiting a long time for appointments, dealing with tons of paperwork, and trying to navigate in a new city. So it's complicated. People need help. But currently, solutions are not good. relocation services are extremely expensive. People pay on average $20,000 per relocation. Both companies and employees have to invest a lot of time and yet the support is limited. And this is actually a big risk. We had clients of ours that lost candidates within two weeks. If they did not provide adequate relocation support. We change that. With Localyze. We develop software that cuts All the processes within relocation by 80%. we automate everything from immigration to social integration. And the best, we aggregate all stakeholders within one software to provide a one stop shop for relocation to make relocation really easy, affordable and accessible to everyone. We proved that our model work. We already relocated people from 47 countries. We launched only 12 months ago and we're active in three markets. Germany, US and Canada, and Spain being the fourth market from next week on. We're growing at 45% on average, every month. These are the numbers but what actually matters is the people relocate because we believe that migration is a great thing. Our team is international. We represent four nationalities, we speak 12 languages, and we believe that the world nowadays needs someone was building bridges instead of walls. Thank you
Casey Lau: All right, our final breakout company is called Ohne the community first brand reshaping the way women experience their menstrual cycles. Since launching in 2018 Ohne has dismantle the boundary between period care and self care with a range of organic products including the UK is first pro period CBD oil and multi platform content Ohne provides women with the tools data and support they need to manage their entire cycles. Please welcome to the stage cofounders Leah and Nikki.
Leah Remfry-Peploe: Every single person in this room is results of a uterus that at some point, bled.
Nikki Michelsen: Meet Jess.
Nikki Michelsen: We've got no slides.
Nikki Michelsen: Slides anyone?
Leah Remfry-Peploe: She would be here, doing something over the top.
Leah Remfry-Peploe: Okay, so we just go. 
Nikki Michelsen: Yes. Okay, meet Jess. She's doing some emotions up here. Her cramps hit hard and she's bloody exhausted before she knows it. She's bleeding craving carbs and sugar. Five days later, her period finally stops. Next up, she's feisty and her skin is glowing. But she's burning way more energy than her body knows what to do with.
Leah Remfry-Peploe: Suddenly she's drained and bloated to the extent that she's going to dress size. Literally overnight. Movements at Hired and within days has skin has turned to shit. She looks like a teenager on a fast food diet. And again, her period is about to start. 
Nikki Michelsen: This isn't a one off but happens on repeat 12 times a year for 45 years. That's 540 cycles. The industry 
Leah Remfry-Peploe: And every single one of our competitors 
Nikki Michelsen: Caters to this 28 day cycle by providing women with the products for the five days they bleed. And that's it.
Leah Remfry-Peploe: And these products that make sweets filled with toxins and take longer to biodegrade than the lifetime of the person that used them 
Nikki Michelsen: With the global market for personal care and beauty estimates that 1 trillion US dollars, what about the rest of the woman's cycle, 
Leah Remfry-Peploe: Enter Ohne. 
Nikki Michelsen: Ohne exists to reshape the way that women experience their entire cycle. We started by providing organic period products on a custom subscription.
Leah Remfry-Peploe: Then came CBD, the world's first pro period CBD oil and a hormone balancing ingestible CBD supplement.
Leah Remfry-Peploe: Next up products for the full 28 day cycle.
Nikki Michelsen: We're building a community focused platform with a serious no bullshit approach two periods and cycle management. Ohne is going to be the global go to destination For the products and hyper personalized support that women deserve for their entire cycle.
Leah Remfry-Peploe: And on top of this, we're building the fast community centered around cycles. Before we launched, a male friend bet us that we would never be able to create a community around periods,
Nikki Michelsen: he lost his money.
Leah Remfry-Peploe: Even in its early stages, we see over one third of our customers post pictures of their tampons online,
Nikki Michelsen: and our next six months of customer events, 
Leah Remfry-Peploe: they are sold out. 
Nikki Michelsen: We've just completed the TechStars accelerator program and been prepping to launch in retail next week. All the while we've been increasing our b2b partners stocking Ohne in bathrooms across the globe.
Leah Remfry-Peploe: But most importantly, we've seen growth that has matched our b2c targets, events, referrals, ambassadors, and a shitload of press has meant that over 75% of our b2c subscriptions were acquired offline. So for the two days of crazy that I personally attend every month 
Nikki Michelsen: for my hormonal acne decides to show up every four weeks for your friend who's lost control of her cycle 
Leah Remfry-Peploe: for your daughter, who has just started her period 
Nikki Michelsen: For you 
Leah Remfry-Peploe: Ohne
Leah Remfry-Peploe: Forget that time of the month. 
Nikki Michelsen: We're here for women every time of the month.
Nikki Michelsen: Thank you.