
Now in September, Facebook acquired control labs for a deal reportedly worth between 500,000,000 and 1 billion dollars according to Bloomberg. It marks a substantial increase in Facebook's investment and ambitions in the hardware space. As the Ctrl Labs tech will be put to use in future AR and VR projects at the social network, here to demonstrate how non invasive neural control will transform how we interact with the world forever. Please give a big warm Altice arena welcome to the co founder and CEO of CTRL labs, Thomas Reardon.
Greetings. I've got a jack myself in here to do this talk properly. I'm going to do a quick test.
Yes, I'm here. Okay, let's get started. So, I want to talk to you about a new version of brain of your brain, Brain 2.0 and how you would use it to control machines, rather than to control mechanical devices the way you work today. First, I want to start with this quick video to give you a taste of our work. Good. 
Here, there's a person who's learning how to get control of a virtual hand of five fingered hand they just put the device on, and they're slowly figuring out how to move into your fingers. Now, what's remarkable here is this person was born without a left hand, and they were able to do this in under 90 seconds. Very first time they put it on. It's because we're really really good at this in terms of our motor nervous system, how we learn to control our own He's, he can do even more than he can control the forces in his body, something he's never done in his entire life, he can generate grasping forces. And he's doing that out of his nerve, not out of the muscles themselves. I'll go forward here now, what is CTRL Labs? We're a group of neuroscientists and engineers in New York City. And we're really here to try to bring you a new kind of effortless and joyful control over machines to maximize your capacity to use the full extent of cognitive you and not just the minimal you that can wiggle your fingers. 
I want to set it up properly. And talk about brain 1.0 how everything you've ever done, has happened. You learned when you were in the first year to year and a half of your life through a lot of motor babbling how to control your body. You did this exhaustively, you had a massive rewiring of your entire nervous system and that allowed you to skillfully control your muscles to move yourself in the world, and ultimately to learn how to actually control tools. We did this when we lived in caves. And what we've really done in the computing era over the last 50 years is to repurpose that mechanical manipulative activity that we generate, and use it to control machines, a keyboard, a mouse, a tablet, say swiping. We're trying to replace all of that now. And instead of you using those same motor skills that you learned as an infant, to control the machine in a slow encumbering way, instead, to do something very, very fast using the brain and the signals your brain generates to actually move. It's not such that we make our devices more capable, but how do you become more capable? 
And neural interfaces are how we unlock that and that brings us to brain 2.0. In brain 2.0, we actually start with the electrical activity that generates movement. And now we decode that in real time and repurpose that for control over devices and digital experiences. Directly. That's what I'm doing here is I'm controlling this presentation allows me to do new things in virtual reality that I couldn't do by moving my hands.
Or speaking.
It allows me to imagine a new kind of embodiment, like what it would be like to actually be an octopus, and have control over all eight legs and a continuous and intuitive fashion. That's what augmented reality and virtual reality are asking us to go explore. And we have to move behind beyond mechanical devices to go do that. We do it with this device right here. And I'm going to show you live for the first time that's doing it on stage. So if we can show my hand, this is the same hand that I just showed you, my colleague Greg Wayne was doing before and this is in real time. It's really me. And what's cool about this is it's individual fingers on to tell you this is the mother of machine learning problems to do this in real time from the actual deconvolved output of motor neurons coursing into my arm slit on here, you'll notice the forces I generate are indicated by the intensity of the map. Here, I'll do an intense open hand, etc. Now, my friends going to switch over and show you how we actually use this in virtual reality. One of the things that we've thought about virtual reality is that I don't want to use my hands to grab virtual objects. I kind of want to have the force I want to have Luke Skywalker like powers. I want to be able to manipulate objects at a distance and do things I couldn't even do with my hands if I tried.
And when they're ready, we'll go. Possibly.
Trust me, it's worth it.
Wait another 10 seconds. No, but in the next demo.
Okay, what do you want to try this here? No.
But we have something No.
No, here.
Alright, we're going to move to the next demo. And apologies for that. It's a VR demo and which is manipulating things at a distance. And we'll, we'll send you follow up videos to go look at. The next thing is going to do is play with something we call paint brush. And this is sort of meant to be how people might collaborate, actually an augmented reality and do things simultaneously. So here Chris is going to draw on a map. And what's interesting here is it's a reimagining of like a drawing app. So rather than having a palette tool that you go to, all of the different commands of painting, and drawing are embedded in his hand and opening In his motor nerve, he can control the thickness of the brush, not by going and setting it by but just directly intending a bigger or smaller brush is able to wipe out that he didn't pick in a race tool. It's embedded in his nervous system. These are all simultaneously available controls he's zooming in and out. As you notice, you can bring up a palette and and change maybe the color of something here and send us a message. Before we move on to the next demo. Though, we are also we are battling the Bluetooth gods in this giant arena.
Alright. And he was able to snap his fingers and erase the whole map. Now we're going to do something that's even a little bit crazier, if we can switch to what we call dino rider. So here rather than basing things on sort of small and covert movements, we're actually going to do something where he's using a single motor neuron in his spine to control this dumping dinosaur, this end game that's in bed. in Chrome, and what's happening here, you'll notice if you come up on Chris's Chandra, notice he's not moving at all, yet, he's able to actually control the status of one jump at a time with 15 millisecond accuracy. He's trained himself to control this one spinal motor neuron. This is a kind of training you can do in a couple of minutes. And you can learn to control lots of them divergent Lee, Chris can move around, what you'll notice is that same motor neuron is active, but we from a decode side, understand the difference between when that neuron is trying to control the machine versus when it's just controlling your body, same neuron. This is insane, that this works. I want to move on to some videos quickly, that show you how far our work is going now if we can move to them. The first one I think is something that we spent a fortune trying to develop. And it's really the world's most expensive back scratch now There's something much deeper in this and that that's a seven degree of freedom multi jointed arm that can move soon 60 degrees, we can't just map it onto what the hand can do. You have to build a new new kinds of things that you would never you don't use joysticks control that but you can learn rapid manipulate Robin manipulation and learn to intuitively, one last video to show you in real time I like this because it really gets to where we want this to be powerful. I no longer want to fight and correct the auto correction on my iPhone. I don't want to have short messages. I want to have the full richness of human language and to be able to manipulate an author. And this is something where we repurposed a very minimal QWERTY keyboard into the hands, something you can learn very, very rapidly. Universities are very, very small movements, and the actually types really quite fast. There's no keyboard there you are the keyboard. Thanks, can we move on to my clothes? Thank you very much so I can do VR. We'll see you again.