
Yvonne Redmond: Well, that was amazing. Thank you to Thomas Reardon for that. Now one of the amazing things about Web Summit, it's bringing people together from incredibly different backgrounds and industries. People that are otherwise very unlikely to find themselves in the same room. And our next panel will do just that, as we'll be joined by an MMA fighter, a platinum selling artist turned entrepreneur, one of the world's leading fashion photographers, and the founder of a hugely successful tech company. What do they all have in common? It's simple. Obsession. And no I'm not talking about the Calvin Klein fragrance. Each of them is obsessed with what they do, and it's that obsession that has driven them to where they are today. To explore what obsession looks like and if it is actually healthy to be obsessed, please give a warm welcome to the founding editor of UK Wired David Rowan, co founder of Intercom Des Traynor, world renowned Creative Director Rankin, MMA fighter Paige VanZant, and music producer, artist, and co founder of Akoin, Akon.
David Rowan: This is going to be the most eclectic session at Web Summit. We have for people who have achieved the greatest heights in four very different worlds. Yet they all have a strange ability to focus on the target, to sacrifice in the short term, to go long, to be absolutely focused and driven in their ambitions. Andd we're going to learn a bit more from the four of them, and try and understand if there are some common threads that the rest of us can focus on, in our own lives, our own careers. This is Akon. Not only is he a super successful musician. Created a couple of record labels that you've probably bought music from. Produced with some extraordinary musicians, Michael Jackson, Snoop Dogg. An entrepreneur as well. A diamond mine in South Africa. But most recently, he has helped create a cryptocurrency, Akoin, that is trying to empower entrepreneurs in Africa.
David Rowan: Paige VanZant is probably the fittest person on the stage.
David Rowan: The most likely to attack the moderator physically if he says something that she doesn't like. She is a mixed martial arts fighter in the Ultimate Fighting Championship. Also, you may have seen her on Dancing with the Stars. I think the last time we looked you were number 15 in the UFC women's fighting rankings. But you've got to the top as well. There's Rankin over there, who has photographed pretty much everybody that matters, not just people in fashion, but the Queen. I was thinking of getting him to take a picture of all of us but then I realized it will probably cost us 100,000 euros. But you've been in this game for like three decades now. And you're still man. And then from the entrepreneurial world, from Dublin, Des Traynor set up a company, co founder of Intercom, which essentially I think makes internet business personal is how you describe it, but it has about 30,000 customers the last time I looked. And you can't build a company like this, a billion dollar company, without absolutely knowing what you want. So that's the difference between us all. Let's try and find some commonalities. Akon, was it something that happened in childhood that made you think I can't just succeed in the world of music, I have to be an entrepreneur and I can't just stop with the record label, I have to build a new kind of business? Why do you think you grew up with that hunger to keep pushing forward?
Akon: I would say probably being raised in Africa changed a lot. You know, coming from Africa, coming into America. The difference in culture, the difference in access is what really, really drove me. And especially around the time when I came, America was in a very transformal place you know, especially when it comes to race and, and, and things of that nature. So everything was a lot harder. So everything that you did, you had to do a double, you know, double great for it to even be accepted. And ultimately I came off as a hustler because the opportunities wasn't quite there for me. So as an African child, which we're all entrepreneurs by birth, coming into the US as a hustler, I think all those elements just gave me the drive to be successful in whatever it is I wanted to be successful in. And I think as time came on, opportunity seized and I see that opportunity was available. I never hesitated to take that opportunity. Because I never seen failure as an option. I always felt like if things didn't work out the way you expected it to work, it wasn't because you failed. It was because you didn't have enough information. So that led me to just prepare for everything that I did, and try to get as much information possible to succeed in whatever it is I was trying to do.
David Rowan: And was there a role model early on was it a parent And Uncle Hou said, you can do it a Kahn, you can go and be that person that you don't think you can be.
Akon: I think my parents always been like, I think, in most people, your dad, my dad was there for me, you know, my mom was there for me. I was very fortunate to have both my mother and father because a lot of friends I came up with were raised by single parents. And seeing my father as a jazz musician, him being a role model, and seeing that as a jazz musician, jazz musicians really didn't make much money. So I knew that there was not quite and I'm trying to understand what drove my dad to do it because there was not quite money in it. And then I realized it wasn't the musician that was making the money. It was the record company. And that's when I said maybe if I do get into business, musically, I'm gonna go into the side that actually makes the money.
David Rowan: But you've made it. You've got your multi Platinum albums, you couldn't go much higher in the music business. Financially, you don't seem to have much to worry about. What keeps you pushing new boundaries.
Akon: I think it's just the aspect of creating lines and walking over them. Because I don't think is, I think honestly is impossibly human for someone to say, Okay, once I reach this goal, I'm done. Because you think you're done until you reach that goal, you know, and then you want to get higher and then you meet peers as already on that level, that's a step up and step up. So it feeds that greed gene and you that wants to create a more bigger success rate for yourself. But I think what drives me the most is always been spiritual because my grandfather was also one of the most important people in my life on a spiritual level. And he was always telling me, son, life is like a hotel room. You were just passing through. And what he meant by that was that this life has always been a test for us. And ultimately, no matter how much you think you might accomplish if you didn't accomplish Anything that God can look up on you and smile about, then you haven't accomplished anything. And I think it was that factor that gave me the more philanthropy, you know, vision to want to do more and more. And then I realized, the more I did travel, I started to recognize people that look and feel like me and went through the same struggles I went through. And I just wanted to see that change. And I realized no matter how successful I got, the one thing that never changed was the pain that I always want to delete, from seeing others go through what I felt like I went through as a child. 
David Rowan: Do you recognize this, Des? As an entrepreneur in the tech world, a very different world. But it's not about the money. It's about pushing forward and trying to solve more and more problems.
Des Traynor: Yeah, there's definitely like this progression of the possible I think you want to do something that seems impossible, and then that's possible, and then the buzz is the next, the next impossibility. And I think that's like, it seemed impossible to say start a company or then you know, move to San Francisco. Raising venture capital raised a million raise 50 million raise 100 million dollars. They're all impossible things that you're never going to do. And then you do them, and you're like, what's next? It's something that's like fueled, I think a lot of us is just this idea of like, whenever somebody tells me I can't do something, I'm a brilliant now. Now I know, I'm definitely gonna do it.
David Rowan: Where did you get that resilience?
Des Traynor: I probably it was probably like, to my childhood, like, my mom was a single mother raising a family of seven. And she like, she was always just kind of showing me how things like were like, it was hard to be like, good, you know, good, hard things are worth fighting for. And, and it was kind of whenever I faced any challenge in business, it's the same sort of resilience and how to be like when someone says, this is a really hard thing to pull off. I'm like, brilliant. That means no one else is going to do it. You know, that's like, that's always been my attitude. 
Akon: Absolutely.
David Rowan: So you've got the work ethic. You've got the focus on the target is The difference between failing and succeeding, the amount of energy you throw in the amount of hours you work.
Des Traynor: I, for me, I think you can't ignore a little bit of luck. That's like, for me, success is a function of like the time you put in the effort you put in in your time, your actual ability and how much you've like improved yourself, I look. And I, you know, I never sit on a stage here and say like that, like it all, you know, it was all me or it was all hard graft, like you need a few breaks to go your way or at the very least, you need not bad luck. You know, like I could have got hit by a car eight years ago that would have stopped would have screwed things up. Right. So I think a look is definitely a factor they have to acknowledge bush outside of that. I think, you know, honestly, the arrows, the graft, they're like the 4am conference calls, whatever it takes, you know, we're it's like, you know, hundreds of arrows in the gym or millions of arrows in the studio or like most probably 10 million photographs. I don't know. Like, it's all like if you're not willing to do it out your You're definitely not going to succeed. I really believe that you have to actually put the arrows in.
David Rowan: How many hours a week do you think you work?
Des Traynor: these days? I've gotten better. But I would say, unapologetically in the early days, somewhere between 80 and 100 on a bad week,
David Rowan: you're breaching European Union rules.
Des Traynor: I am. proud of yourself.
David Rowan: Paige, you train every day. You've been training a couple of times a day, even whilst you've been here at the Web Summit. How much do you think your success comes down to spending the time getting better, getting fitter? Making sure your reactions are faster?
Paige VanZant: Well, I mean, no words have been truer success is where preparation meets opportunity. The opportunity has to present itself but it doesn't matter if you're not prepared. And life can only give you so many it's true luck has to be in play. You have to have the opportunities come up but you'll never capitalize on them if you're not prepared and knowing I don't know when my next fight will be. I don't want have anything lined up, I don't have the next opponent yet. But I have to continue to train and be prepared for when I do know, I have the confidence that I've been training all the way up until this point, and I'm prepared to go and fight somebody.
David Rowan: But you're in a slightly different world to Des and Akon and also Rankin in that. There's a time limit, you can't stay a top ranked fighter as you get beyond a certain age just because the body can't take the blows. So having been completely obsessed about getting the top of the game, how do you then prepare for the next chapter
Paige VanZant: 100% and that's something that I've had to focus on. I was very fortunate that I turned professional when I was 18 years old. So my professional career as an fighter took off when I was 18. It is a career that can end it absolutely any moment and it's the same for any professional athlete. Of course, I'm in a very high contact sport. So you can only take so many punches to the head before you start, you know hurting your body. So I've done things like, you know, speaking at the Web Summit building my platform, so I become so much more than just a professional fighter where fighting is no longer my purpose. It's just a piece of what I do. It's my platform to show off who I am as a person and I can share my story through fighting. People are resonating with me right now because I am a professional fighter and I'm standing out but soon it'll change to where people know who I am. And I'm a brand all on my own the way all these amazing people have done, they've been able to create opportunity outside of just what they're naturally talented in. There's other things that you can work on to better yourself,
David Rowan: and how does this obsessiveness in your nature translate to building the brand of Paige on social media on TV?
Paige VanZant: It's extremely important social media. That's something that I've spoken about a few times here at Web Summit. It's it's a big aspect of anybody who wants to be professional outside of just being an athlete, and it transcends over any company. You know, I'm trying to be not only just a fresh new athlete, it's about being a brand and entity that stands alone outside of just athleticism. And I love that social media has given me this platform where I can share who I am, I can share the background, my purpose, my plan and and who I am. And that's where I create such a large fan base is just do the social media.
David Rowan: So everybody in the room has a device that makes them an amazing photographer. You became an amazing photographer. a while before that, you were one of the few people who is known like Akon, like Madonna, just by one name. 
Rankin: Yeah.
David Rowan: Or two.
Rankin: You're basically all my competition. All right, everyone's competition now for me. I think the thing is, is that the camera in your pocket is is just a tool, you know, like what you do with it is what's really important and and also what the things that you can do really quickly with the thing that's in your pocket. It took people like me years and years and years, to get to a point where we created these visual aesthetics that you can now press a button and you can use them. So I think in a way photography is dead and captures or captures alive. The capture is what it's about. But for me, the reason I want to come to places like this is because I think that we can't let go of what the craft of photography or the craft of creativity is. And that's what I'm obsessed with. I'm obsessed with. Being able to communicate with people and being able to tell stories and be able to engage with people. And, and the main point for me is that I'll use whatever is out there, whether it's a social media platform, whether it's an event like this, I just want to communicate my ideas and get them across to people, whatever way I can.
David Rowan: I'm interested in how you found photography. I mean You started out I think studying accounting at Brighton Poly. How did you find your Muse?
Rankin: Well, I was lucky. I was in halls residence with lots of our students. And they were doing eight hour weeks, and I was doing 50 hour weeks. And I thought there's something wrong here. Like, I'm not enjoying it, and they're loving every minute of it. And I went home and I borrowed a camera, and I literally picked up the camera and looked through the lens and click the shutter. And that was it. It was like, I'd found my calling. And I think actually, probably what is the similarity between us all we found the thing we love, and when you find the thing that you love, it's never work. It's your passion. So I don't ever pick up a camera thing. Oh, no, not another day's work. I think this this is what gives me a buzz. This is what makes me excited to be able to have someone in front of me or have a subject and be able to try and catch something about them. A capture an idea, credit story that maybe nobody's ever seen You know, read before.
David Rowan: And I guess there's always new stories that need telling you've moved from fashion and music stars to now you're working with extinction rebellion? Yeah.
Rankin: Well, it's always been important to me to have a social purpose to what I do, because I used to get paid like crazy amounts of money for doing what I loved. And I just thought the balance wasn't really fair. But it also just, you know, if you're going to have this, if you're going to have this ability to be able to tell stories, then you really should be trying to use them in an effective way, can't just always be about selling something. So my idea was always to sell something that maybe help change the world made it a better place. And I think especially these days, when the world is completely flipped, it's completely different. We're not looking at the world through the lens of today we're looking at the world through the lens of yesterday and we need to start realizing that the things in our pockets are tracking knows they know what we want to buy, they know who, whoever you relationships with. And we need to work out how to make those things work for us and not allow the makers of them to use us to work for them.
David Rowan: There is an argument that this obsession on getting better and better at what you're doing is not entirely healthy. It's not giving you time to smell the flowers to hang out with your children. I mean, to what extent is there truth in this argument that you're living an unbalanced life that isn't necessarily great for you long term?
Akon: Well, what I would say to that, I mean, to an extent, it all depends on how you're moving. You know, if you're moving and you're not taking health into account, you're not physically working out or doing some physical for your body to stay, you know, movable sore and things of that nature, not eaten properly. It could be very unhealthy, but clear You have to keep all that into account because you have to treat your body with care and you have to healthfully move a certain kind of way. But more than anything, when you follow in your passion, you're extremely happy doing it. Yeah. And everyone knows that happiness is the best cure for any sickness, any sickness, happiness, most of the time is curing it or can or can extend the life of any living human being. So when you have the combination of good health, proper management in your time and scheduling your work with your passion, and also with family, then I think there's a good there's a good way to kind of balance everything out, you know, because I don't think you can have one without having the other.
David Rowan:  So it comes down to time management.
Akon: Yeah, Time management. Definitely. Yeah.
Rankin: Especially when everyone's on, you know, we're all on all the time now. And it's like stop wasting your time, scrolling, looking at stuff. It's not always research. It's just sometimes wasting time. So managing your time I'm into jomo, which is a joy of missing out. fear of missing out is something we should Shouldn't we shouldn't be doing it's like it's not healthy for us. So I think it is about time management is about making sure that you give yourself time just to be bored. If you're creative, you have to be bored. If you're not bored, you are not creative. And also, and this is a really important thing. Stop stealing people's ideas from the internet. Sorry, guys. They're not your ideas. There's someone else's ideas. finding yourself is important. And that means spending proper relationship time with family or your body or whatever it is.
David Rowan: So let's leave people with some concrete takeaways. There's lots of people in the room who are building businesses that are growing, they are forging creative careers, but haven't yet reached the pinnacle. given some guidance they're obsessed to. Is it simply having a better time management app? Is it simply not looking at other people's ideas?
Rankin: Don't be scared of failure. That's the main thing. You can't be scared of putting yourself out there because you're going to mess up. There's no question. 
Akon: Me personally, I don't believe in failure. I don't think failure exists. If it didn't happen the way you predicted it, that just means you didn't have enough information. So prepare yourself for what you're trying to accomplish and where you're trying to go. And don't look at something because you made an agenda to say I want to be at this level, by this particular time, put in all the work you possibly can. But also keep in mind that if it doesn't happen at that particular time, it's not because you couldn't achieve it if you worked hard as you possibly could. Sometimes it's as simple as it wasn't meant to be at that specific time. So also leave a little bit of room for the spirituality to play a role in what you're doing in today's life because I think sometimes we do things without taking spirituality into account sometime. Things is going to happen when God wants it to happen to you. Not when you want it to happen, all you could do is work as hard as you can towards it and pray that it all comes together. But you got to put the work in.
Paige VanZant: And I think you also you have to find your passion. And like you're saying all of us up here found what we were extremely passionate about. It's no longer work for us. Yes, we work very, very hard. And it is not easy. But it's easy in a sense that we're doing something that we love. And in that you have to have a product that people want to endorse, they want to be a part of, and if you're passionate about it, then people are going to resonate with it, because they can see your energy that you put behind what you're selling. And it is something that we've all become good at because we just genuinely love what we do. 
Akon: Absolutely.
Des Traynor: I think that's totally correct. I would say when once you find your passion, belief is the first step, like believe that you can actually achieve and then hard work is the next step. And if you get those two things, right, rarely goes to wrong. 
Akon: I agree.
David Rowan: Well, I don't think we could say much more. So photography doesn't exist. Failure doesn't exist, but hard work, discovering your passion and the productivity app for scheduling is the route to obsessive success. Please can we thank Rankin, Akon, Des, and Paige